---
sip: 297
title: Adding ADA, NEAR, and LTC to Synthetix Perps V2
network:  Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Matt
---

## Simple Summary

Create Synthetix Perps V2 markets for ADA, NEAR, and LTC

## Abstract

This is a proposal to offer ADA-PERP, NEAR-PERP, and LTC-PERP futures which track the price of their respective cryptocurrency.

## Motivation

This proposal is an essential step in ensuring that traders continue to have access to a large number of markets on Perps V2. Many community members, partners, and so on have also requested to increase the number of supported markets.

The proposed markets have well-established perpetual trading markets at other centralized and decentralized protocols. The inclusion of these markets within Synthetix Perps will provide additional trading opportunities for traders and the entire Synthetix Ecosystem

Furthermore, the assets that have been picked are all supported by Pyth Network and Chainlink already and will not require any additional waiting period. Additional SIPs will be prepared for assets that will be requested.

## Rationale

ADA, NEAR, and LTC are well-established cryptocurrencies currently unavailable for trading on Perps V2. The inclusion of these markets in Synthetix Perps V2 will provide additional trading opportunities for traders.

Additionally, many traders and community members have requested additional feeds so they can enjoy Perps V2 features with more markets than just ETH.

## Specification

Data was obtained on Jan 11th via Coingecko from the following exchanges: Binance, Binance US, [Crypto.com](http://Crypto.com), KuCoin, Coinbase Exchange, Huobi Global, [Gate.io](http://Gate.io), BKEX, and Bitfinex.

| Coin Name | 2% Depth    | \-2% Depth  | 24 Hour Volume |
| --------- | ----------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| LTC       | $8,803,933  | $7,765,820  | $136,952,621   |
| ADA       | $5,467,578  | $6,821,281  | $106,010,557   |
| NEAR      | $2,263,763  | $2,515,867  | $58,049,313    |

## Technical Specification

Implementation requires implementing off-chain oracle price feeds from Pyth Network and backup on-chain oracles from Chainlink.

Open Interest Caps and Fees will be configurable for each token independently via SCCP, but the initial open interest caps will be as follows:

| Open Interest Cap 	| Native Coin    	| Approximate USD Value 	|
|-------------------	|----------------	|-----------------------	|
| LTC OI CAP:       	| 5,900 LTC      	| (~500K USD)           	|
| ADA OI CAP:       	| 1,515,000 ADA  	| (~500K USD)           	|
| NEAR OI CAP:      	| 276,000 NEAR   	| (~500K USD)           	|


## Test Cases

n/a

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

Open Interest Caps and Fees will be configurable for each token independently via SCCP.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

