---
sip: 405
title: Temporarily Distribute fees to V2 stakers
network: Arbitrum, Base, Ethereum and Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: snxmaximalists.eth
proposal: >-
  
---

## Simple Summary
After SIP 385, fees will no longer be used to buy back and burn SNX; instead, they will be sent to the treasury for later use. This proposal suggests redirecting the fees allocated to the Synthetix Treasury to the v2 FeePool.

## Abstract
Building on the existing fee-sharing mechanism, this proposal redirects the fees sent to the Synthetix Treasury to be bridged, converted to sUSD, and deposited into the V2 FeePool. This approach ensures that the funds are effectively distributed to SNX stakers.

## Motivation
By depositing the allocated fees into the FeePool, this proposal consolidates the funds in one location, simplifying the distribution process to SNX stakers and maintaining the integrity of the existing distribution system. By depositing it into the FeePool instead of burning it directly, we ensure that stakers receive one larger debt reduction rather than two smaller reductions if the TC were to burn the sUSD immediately. This approach streamlines the process for stakers.

While this may not be the most elegant solution, it should provide short-term benefits for stakers until a more permanent solution is implemented after the migration.

## Specification
The fees allocated to the Synthetix Treasury from Perps v3 deployments across various chains will be bridged, swapped, and deposited into the v2 FeePool, depending on the needs of each specific deployment.

This process will occur at a fixed, TC-proposed time once a week, ensuring all participants know what to expect.

## Rationale
Consolidating and distributing the fees to SNX stakers ensures they receive their share, making staking more attractive.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
