---
sip: 347
title: Collateral Delegation Intent / Execution
network: Ethereum, Optimism & Base
status: Draft
type: Governance
author:  Kaleb Keny (@kaleb-keny), Noah Litvin (@noahlitvin)', Afif (@aband1), MEB (@barrasso)
created: 2023-10-25
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes incorporating an intent & execute pattern for accounts wishing to exit or decrease their delegated collateral to a given market. The execution of the intent is a public function that can be performed by any account or keeper, who receives a configurable compensation (in sUSD) for executing the intent. The `cooloffKeeperFee` is set aside from the users' account at intent.
After a user signals intention to decrease his delegated collateral, a configurable duration needs to be awaited (`cooloffDuration`), before execution of the intent can be performed.

The intent is non-revokable and during the cool-off time period, the account cannot increase his delegation to the market on which cool off is enacted. However, the account can schedule consecutive intents to decrease their staked collateral on different markets, as long as the number of scheduled intents from a account is below `maxCoolOffs` (a configurable value).
Once a user signals his intention to reduce his delegated collateral on a specific market, he cannot schedule another reduce delegation intent on that same market until the previous intent is executed.
In case a users' collateral is liquidated during the cool-off period, all the accounts scheduled intents are revoked.

It is important to mention that a keepers can only execute the intent to decrease an accounts delegated if the minimum delegation period (`minDelegateTime`), described in [SIP-320](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-320/) had run out.

Finally, the cool off period is configurable per market, given that markets that do not require this intent/execute pattern can have this feature disabled by setting the cool off window to zero, resulting in immediate removal of delegated liquidity, forbearing that `minDelegateTime` had run out.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

In Perp V3, liquidation of the margin and position could take place at different speeds, depending on the liquidity of token, the size of the position or margin and  the rate limit configured. This difference in timing could lead to a situation where the profit/loss impact becomes deterministic. Therefore, in order to ensure that liquidity providers are fairly compensated for their delegated liquidity, a cool off period is proposed when undelegating liquidity from a given market.  


## Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

This functionality is intended to add friction in removing / decreasing a users' delegated collateral in order to lean against behavior of taking advantage of deterministic changes P&L impact from liquidations that are yet to be fully executed.

## Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

- `maxCooloffs` is a configurable number of cool offs an account can schedule at a given point of time, across all markets delegated into.
- `setMaxCoolOff(int32)` to the `IPoolModule` interface that allows a pool to configure a maximum number of of cool offs by a given account.
- `cooloffDuration` is a configurable number of seconds that determines the minimum duration before an intent can be executed.
- `setCooloffDuration(int128)` to the `IMarketManager` interface that allows a market to associate a cool off duration with a market.
- `coolOffKeeperFee` is a configurable amount of sUSD, paid to the caller for executing a delegation removal.
- `setCoolOffKeeperFee(int256)` to the `IPoolModule` interface that allows to configure the keeper fee at the pool level.
- `coolOffs` is a mapping from `account id` to an array of tuples. Each tuple contains the address of the market, the timestamp of intent and the intended amount of delegation to be decreased.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

- Setting the `minDelegateTime` to 1 day, `cooloffDuration` to 30 minutes, `coolOffKeeperFee` to 10 sUSD
    - When a random account with 5 sUSD in his account attempts to signal an intent to decrease his delegated liquidity
      - ❌ Then transaction reverts, due to not enough funds to pay the keeper
    - When a random account, with delegated liquidity to the perp super market and 10 sUSD in his account attempts to signal an intent to undelegate his liquidity
      - ✅ Then the transaction succeeds 10 sUSD are set aside to pay the keeper and the timer starts
        - After the `cooloffDuration` runs out, a keeper attempts to execute the intent
          - ✅ Then the transaction succeeds the keeper receives the 10 sUSD and the users' delegated liquidity is reduced
    - When a random account, with delegated liquidity to the perp super market and 10 sUSD in his account attempts to signal an intent to undelegate his liquidity
      - ✅ Then the transaction succeeds 10 sUSD are set aside to pay the keeper and the timer starts
        - The account then attempts to provide/add liquidity to the perp supermarket
          - ❌ Then transaction reverts due to an intent to exit being configured
        - The account then attempts to signal another intent to exit the perp supermarket
          - ❌ Then transaction reverts due to an intent already being scheduled
        - A random account attempts to execute the intention intent before the `collffDuration` has run out and after the `minDelgateTime` having run out
          - ❌ Then transaction reverts due to the `colloffDuration` having not elapsed
        - A random account attempts to execute the intention intent after the `collffDuration` has run out and before the `minDelgateTime` having run out
          - ❌ Then transaction reverts due to the `minDelgateTime` having not elapsed
        - The account attempts to signal intent to exit providing liquidity to the spot market
          - ❌ Then transaction reverts due to the user not having enough funds to pay for the second intent
        - The account tops up with another 10 sUSD attempts to signal intent to exit providing liquidity to the spot market
          - ✅ Then the transaction succeeds and the user managed to signal the intent to exit providing liquidity to the spot market
    - Setting a random account, with delegated liquidity to the perp super market and 1,000 sUSD in his account
        - The account then attempts to reduce his delegated liquidity to 6 markets, with `maxCooloffs` being set to 5
            - ✅ Then the transaction succeeds on the first 5 markets
            - ❌ Then transaction reverts on the 6th market due to `maxColloffs` being exceeded

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

Please refer to technical specification for definitions of the below configurable values:
- `maxCooloffs` 
- `cooloffDuration` 
- `coolOffKeeperFee` 


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
