---
sip: 421
title:  Frictionless Participation in Delegated Staking for Non-Stakers
network: Ethereum, Optimism, Base & Arbitrum
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Robin (@robin2192)
created: 2025-02-07
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed change intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP introduces a streamlined mechanism that allows SNX holders who are not already staking to participate in delegated staking without waiting for a 7-day cooldown period. It also replaces the issuance of snxUSD (a token with limited utility) with sUSD, a stablecoin with deep liquidity and widespread use within and beyond the Synthetix ecosystem.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done.-->

This SIP proposes the creation of a set of contracts which allow for instant deposit into the delegated staking pool, while also returning a configurable loan-to-value (LTV) in sUSD to the depositor. For an SNX holder to deposit to the delegated staking pool in the current implementation, they must first stake SNX and then wait 7 days before their position is unlocked for migration. This cooldown window introduces significant friction into the delegated staking process for new SNX staking participants, and will undoubtedly cause many to rethink their participation. Additionally, solo staking mints snxUSD, which is effectively valueless as there is no liquidity or plans to build liquidity for snxUSD. By returning sUSD rather than snxUSD, another frictionpoint is removed between staking and using products within the Synthetix ecosystem.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.-->

The current process for delegated staking requires SNX holders to first enter solo staking, endure a 7-day cooldown, and then migrate to the delegated pool. This process not only delays participation but also mints snxUSD — a token with little current (and no plans to improve) real-world utility. By removing the cooldown and issuing sUSD (which has many use cases across the DeFi ecosystem and within Synthetix products), this proposal lowers the barrier to entry for non-stakers and encourages broader participation in the delegated staking system.


## Specification

<!--There are five sections in the Specification:
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values (Via SCCP)
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of how the SIP will solve the problem.-->

1. **Create an intermediate staking contract with a 0-day cooldown window**  
   - This contract will be used to atomically stake at a configued c-ratio, unwrap snxUSD to sUSD, and deposit to the delegated pool.
2. **Create a wrapper for snxUSD into sUSD**  
   - Allow existing snxUSD holders and the intermediate contract to convert snxUSD to sUSD
   - If a user wishes to withdraw from delegated staking early, the wrapper allows them to repay their outstanding staking debt using sUSD, unlocking their staked SNX without needing to acquire snxUSD.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem.-->

The rationale behind this proposal is:  
1. **Increased Delegated Staking Rate by Reducing Friction**  
   - Removing the 7-day cooldown window between staking and depositing to the delegated pool increases the likelihood that a prospective new staker will participate.
2. **Supporting the canonical Synthetix stablecoin (sUSD)**  
   - sUSD has deep liquidity and existing integrations. snxUSD should continue to operate within the V3 system, but removed from circulation in favor of a single Synthetix stablecoin (sUSD).
3. **Implement a User-Friendly Early Withdrawal Mechanism**
   - An intuitive and streamlined withdrawal process is essential, as overly complex procedures can discourage potential participants.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed.-->

The proposal will be implemented via new and modified smart contracts, with the following key components:

1. Intermediate Staking Contract
   - Instant Deposit: The contract accepts unstaked SNX deposits and immediately stakes the tokens without imposing a cooldown period.
   - Atomic Migration: Once deposited, the contract automatically migrates the SNX to the protocol-owned delegated staking pool in one atomic transaction.
   - Loan Issuance: Upon successful deposit and staking, the contract calculates and issues an sUSD loan based on a configurable LTV ratio, ensuring the user’s position remains overcollateralized.
2. snxUSD to sUSD Conversion Wrapper
   - Conversion Functionality: A dedicated contract will be created to convert snxUSD into sUSD at a 1:1 ratio.
   - Early Withdrawal Mechanism: Allow users to withdraw from delegated staking before their debt has been repaid using sUSD rather than snxUSD.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation.-->

Planned tests will include:  
- Verify that the staking, migration to the delegated pool, and sUSD loan issuance occur in a single atomic transaction.
- Verify that snxUSD is converted to sUSD at a 1:1 ratio
- Verify that after migration, the delegated staking pool accurately reflects the user's staking position.
- Verify that users opting for early withdrawal can successfully repay their staking debt using sUSD.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

- C-ratio for new stakers/delegated stakers (initially 1000% following [SIP-420's](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-420/) proposed configuration).  

## Copyright

All content herein is licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
