---
sip: 316
title: Core System Precautionary Security Features
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Implemented
type: Governance
author: 'Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth)'
implementor: 'Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth)'
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x60db6835dc89839ad09f11643b69ed7686cffdb9df56e79ec31d2b4994063986
created: 2023-02-03
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Protect the protocol from loss by adding a "interaction timeout" to Accounts which prevents withdrawals.

Additionally, add checks which allow for disabling of most system functions in emergency situations similar to `SystemStatus` in v2x.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

Synthetix v3 introduces revolutionary mechanisms which will change the way that DeFi looks at composable protocol design. However, perhaps the biggest threat to Synthetix
is a cataclysmic protocol failure or smart contract hack which leads to loss of user funds (think about just about any bridge hack over 2022). New systems come with 
inherent risks, and
certain functions, such as `withdraw` or `delegateCollateral`, will likely be a massive target for potential attackers. Adding certain restrictions to deter
these attackers, such as interaction timeout and easy CC disabling paths, will both reduce the risk of these endpoints, as well as limit the potential damages
if such an attack were to occur.

## Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

These solutions were chosen because they closely align with the successful `SystemStatus` which has been used in v2x to great effect.

## Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

### Interaction Timeout

A field, `lastInteraction` will be added the `Account` storage object which stores the unix timestamp of the last time a user interacted with their account. This timestamp will be updated every time a user performs a write-action on their
account, such as delegation, mintUsd, or deposit.

The `withdraw` function, which allows for removal of collateral from the system, is an endpoint of perhaps catastrophic concern if it were to be
exploited during an attack. Therefore, an interaction timeout is added (ex. 8 hours) which completely disables an attacker's ability to withdraw collateral
from the system through means of a flash loan attack, and gives ample time for internet sleuths or other interested parties to identify the issue
before it can result in loss of protocol collateral.

The withdrawal function is primarily target for protection because every other function in v3 more or less just alters the internal accounting of the system,
so in the case of an attack, we could hypothetically recover through a system update without loss of funds.

A SCCP configurable parameter, `withdrawTimeout`, will be added to the system to configure the wait time between account interaction and first allowed
withdrawal.

### Feature Flags

A function is added to `FeatureFlagsModule`, `setDeniers`, which permits specification of a list of ethereum addresses which may issue a call to disable
each function on the system. The list of deniers will be coded in the `synthetix-deployments` repo and approved by SC, and most likely be a set of trusted
CC members. `deniers` are not permitted to re-allow any features without owner approval.

The list of deniers is an SCCP configurable value. If the owner of the system is the pdao or another address outside the SC, an SC vote is required to re-allow any disabled feature.

New feature flags will be introduced to protect the following functions:

* `createAccount`
* `deposit`
* `withdraw`
* `mintUsd`
* `burnUsd`
* `liquidate`
* `liquidateVault`
* `depositMarketCollateral`
* `withdrawMarketCollateral`
* `depositMarketUsd`
* `withdrawMarketUsd`
* `claimRewards`
* `delegateCollateral`

All these flags will be set to `allowAll` automatically by cannonfile step to allow for the usual system operation on initial deployment.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

For each `CollateralConfiguration`, the following parameters are added:
* `withdrawalTimeout` the minimum number of seconds which should have elapsed since last account interaction before withdrawal of collateral from an account is allowed. Can be set to `0` to completely disable the timeout.
* `deniers`. for each feature listed above. the list of deniers who have permission to disable the given feature.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
