---
sip: 361
network: Base
title: Perps V3 - `reportedDebt` Keeper Contract
author: Kaleb
status: Draft
created: 2024-02-07
type: Governance
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SCCP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SCCPs. Note that an SCCP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SCCP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sccp-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the SCCP.-->

This sip introduces decentralized keeper contract that aims to keeping  the [reportedDebt](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix-v3/blob/main/markets/perps-market/contracts/modules/PerpsMarketFactoryModule.sol#L114) in a given supermarket lively.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the variable change proposed.-->
The keeper contract would perform the following, when a keeper runs the `upkeep` call:
- Fetch the prevailing `reportedDebt` figure and saves it under `previousReportedDebt`
- Update the pyth price onchain (with vaa's provided by the keeper as part of the contract call)
- Fetches the latest `reportedDebt` figure and saves it under `latestReportedDebt`
- The contract pays out a `keepingReward` to the keeper if the distance between `latestReportedDebt` and `previousReportedDebt` [exceeds a threshold](#debt-distance). Otherwise the transaction reverts.
- The `keepingReward` is computed using the methodology outlined in [SIP-2013](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-2013/) and [SIP-356](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-356/) and should covers the gas costs of a single price feed update in addition to a incentive paid out to the keeper, details under [reward section](#keeping-reward). 
- Finally the snxUSD is paid out of the keeping contract itself, therefore if the contract is not funded, upkeep is not rebated.

## Motivation

<!--The motivation is critical for SCCPs that want to update variables within Synthetix. It should clearly explain why the existing variable is not incentive aligned. SCCP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.-->

The current perps v3 design is based on a pull based oracle system where traders/lp's pull prices offchain and push it into the system. However, this opens up the risk of LP's exiting staking under certain circumstances in order to avoid incurring losses on their staked assets. Hence, this sip aims at addressing this situation by offering keepers an incentive to keeping prices lively under a controlled environment.

## Specification

<!--The therefore specification should describe the syntax and semantics of new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Debt Distance

In order for a `keepingReward` to be disbursed to the keeper **both** the below conditions need to be simultaneously satisfied:
- `abs(latestReportedDebt - previousReportedDebt) / previousReportedDebt > minDebtDeltaPercent`
- `abs(latestReportedDebt - previousReportedDebt) > minDebtDeltaUSD`

With both `minDebtDeltaPercent` and `minDebtDeltaUSD` being configurable via SCCP by governance.

### Keeping Reward

The keepingReward is calculated, similar to how [SIP-2013](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-2013/) outlines the compensation:
 1) `costOfExecutionGross := (gasPriceL2 * gasUnitsL2 + l1BaseFee * (gasUnitsL1+overhead) * feeScalarL1) * ETH/USD`
 2) `profitMargin := max(profitMarginUSD; costOfExecution * profitMarginPercent )`
 3) `costOfExecutionNet := costOfExecutionGross + profitMargin`
 4) `keepingReward := min(costOfExecutionNet ; keeperFeeUpperBound)`


### Super Market Configuration

The contract would also contain 2 functions callable via owner action that allows to set and unset a super market proxy contract. A set supermarket is eligible for the gas rebate.

### Upkeep
The `upkeep` function takes in 2 arguments, the address of the super market proxy that has stale debt and a blob containing the pyth vaa, used for updating the onchain price on a single or multiple price feeds. 

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Pending 

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->
- `keeperFeeUpperBound` being the upper bound on the keepingReward that can be updated
- `gasUnitsL1` and `gasUnitsL2` being the number of gas units required to execute a pending offchain delayed order
- `profitMarginUSD` being a profit margin in sUSD, applied on the cost of execution
- `profitMarginPercent` being a keeper profit margin in percentage, applied on the cost of execution
- `minDebtDeltaUSD` being the minimum USD change required in `reportedDebt` for a keeping fee to be paid out 
- `minDebtDeltaPercent` being the minimum % change required in order in `reportedDebt` for a keeping fee to be paid out 
-  `setSupermarket` allows setting the supermarket proxy contract as being eligible for gas rebate.
-  `unsetSupermarket` allows unsetting the supermarket proxy contract as being eligible for gas rebate.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
