---
sip: 373
title: Preemptive Approval for Listing ENA Token on Perps v3 on Base
network: Base
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: SynthaMan (@SNXified)
created: 2024-04-03
---

## Simple Summary

Propose a preemptive approval for listing the ENA token, on Perps v3 on the Base network, pending an SCCP for final listing parameters.

## Abstract

This proposal seeks to grant preemptive approval for the listing of the ENA token on Perps v3 on the Base network. The ENA token is a governance token of Ethena Labs.

## Motivation

The motivation behind listing ENA on Perps v3 is pretty obvious. Synthetix is L1 perps infrastructure provider for Ethena Labs stablecoin and listing ENA token on V3 Base perps will help SNX ecosystem participants to get exposure to it.

## Specification

### Rationale

Preemptive approval for the ENA token listing is designed to expedite the integration process within the Synthetix ecosystem, acknowledging the token's potential impact and the community's interest in early adoption. This proposal allows the community to signal its support and readiness to include the ENA token, pending the assessment of market conditions and liquidity through a detailed SCCP.

### Technical Specification

- Requires a Pyth oracle on Base for each market. The listing process for the ENA token on Perps v3 will commence following its listing or announcement of the listing on major exchange (Binance or Coinbase), subject to the successful submission and approval of a subsequent SCCP detailing specific listing parameters.

### Test Cases

- n/a

### Configurable Values

- To be set via SCCP for the ENA market.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived.
