---
sip: 406
title: FeatureFlag - Atomic Synth Trading & Wrappers
network:  Arbitrum & Base
status: Approved
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x6000da3b53be810fefd9bc19b8ab4f1a975d63ad68197a73636050a7246d3a72
type: Governance
author: Kaleb (@kaleb-keny)
---

## Simple Summary

The sip proposes to put in place a feature flag into the `asyncOrderModule`, `atomicOrderModule` and `WrapperModule` , essentially allowing the protocol to disable atomic trades, wraps and unwraps.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

The current implementation of the spot market on v3 does not allow for disabling of atomic orders or wrapping/unwrapping of synths. This SIP would allow the protocol to enable/disable those functions. In addition, a general purpose flag would be added that allows the owner to disable trading on the entire spot market.

## Motivation

The main motivation is to allow the protocol to have more fine tuned and general control over synth trading and wrapping.

## Specification

The specification would be incorporating the standard v3 feature flag [module](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix-v3/blob/d8240a31967b518d95237ee939ba7222e6618454/utils/core-modules/contracts/modules/FeatureFlagModule.sol)  into the [atomicOrderModule](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix-v3/blob/d8240a31967b518d95237ee939ba7222e6618454/markets/spot-market/contracts/modules/AtomicOrderModule.sol) and the [wrapperModule](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix-v3/blob/d8240a31967b518d95237ee939ba7222e6618454/markets/spot-market/contracts/modules/WrapperModule.sol). Whereby each `marketId` would be need to be have the trading / wrapping feature enabled on it, otherwise transactions involved synths that have not been enabled would revert. In addition, a general purpose would be added to all the relevant spot market modules to allow the owner to curtail exchanges.

The requirement spec is covered under [PR](https://github.com/Synthetixio/synthetix-v3/pull/2339), essentially it entails adding the following flags:
- `spotMarketEnabled` would enable the entire spot market for all synths, i.e. atomic, async and wrappers
- `atomicOrdersEnabled` would enable atomic orders on a specific synth, whereby the non-core USD need to be enabled for the atomic swap transaction to go through
- `wrapperEnabled` would enable wraps & unwraps on a specific synth, whereby the non-core USD need to be enabled for the wrap/unwrap transaction to go through

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

The protocol should be able to specify which synth (`marketId`) are allowed to be traded and wrapped with feature flags. All `marketId` are disabled for market orders by default unless enabled via the the feature flag option.

## Test Cases

Will be setup after the testnet release.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
