---
sip: 333
network: Ethereum & Optimism
title: Pool Per-Token deposit caps
author: 'Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth)'
status: SC_Review_Pending
created: 2023-07-25
type: Governance
---

## Abstract

SIP-333 proposes an enhancement to Synthetix v3 that allows pool owners to specify caps for delegated tokens within their respective pools. Currently, all tokens approved by the Spartan Council can be delegated without any restrictions. However, with this SIP, pool owners gain the flexibility to set custom limits on the amount of collateral type that can be delegated within their pools.

## Motivation

By introducing pool-specific delegated token caps, Synthetix aims to provide pool owners with greater control over the delegation of collateral types within their pools. For example, SIP-XXX proposes the creation of a passive SNX pool for distribution of rewards. This change is aimed at enhancing the protocol's flexibility and aligning with the diverse requirements of different collateral types and their potential risk factors.

## Specification

### Default Behavior

By default, when no pool-specific cap is set, the existing behavior will remain unchanged. Any token approved by the Spartan Council can be delegated without any restrictions.

### Setting Pool Specific Caps

Pool owners will have the option to set custom caps for each collateral type they support within their pool. To accomplish this, a new function `setPoolCollateralConfiguration` will be introduced. The function will allow the pool owner to, among possibly other things in the future, specify a limit for a specific collateral type.

When a pool-specific cap is set for a particular collateral type, the protocol will enforce this limit. If the specified cap is lower than the global collateral configuration's `minDelegation`, any delegation of the specified collateral type will be disallowed in the pool. This enables the pool owner to effectively disallow a collateral type entirely.

It is important to note that the enforcement will be applied to each individual collateral type/vault, and not the entire pool. Different collateral types within a single pool can have varying caps depending on the pool owner's preferences.

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
