---
sip: 214
title: Add OIL on Optimism
network: Optimism
status: Rejected
type: Governance
author: Matt (@MattLosquadro-Synthetix), Raffiegang (@raffiegang)
implementor: TBD
release: TBD 
created: 2022-02-27
---

### Simple Summary

Add oil as a synth on Optimism.

### Overview

This SIP will add oil as an individual synths on Optimism. This SIP proposes to name the synth sOIL. This SIP will also make oil shortable on Optimism.

### Motivation

Listing commodity synths like oil on Optimism will benefit the Synthetix "ecosystem" by adding a new asset category alongside crypto synths. The ecosystem partners (eg. Lyra and Kwenta) can strengthen their value proposition and drive additional volume through the Synthetix protocol. 

### Rationale

The need for commodity synths, such as oil, was expressed clearly by various community members in the Synthetix discord channel #new-synth-additions. Adding commodities makes sense given their "safe haven" nature and popularity among traders during market turmoil.

Commodity synths were phased out during the Wezen release ([SIP-169](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-169/)) on L1 with the intent to re-add these synths later on Optimism. Front running risks and high trading fees were important reasons for phasing out commodity synths on Ethereum mainnet; however these issues have been mitigated sufficiently on Optimism.  

**Depth and volume**
The market depth and volume for oil reasonably poses no risk with regards to price manipulation given the market's size. 

### Specification
The synth (sOIL) will be implemented using Chainlink OCR aggregators on Optimism by the use of a non-expiring Crude Oil Index based on ICE Brent Crude Oil futures prices.

The synths will be made shortable via the `CollateralShort` contract by calling `CollateralManager.addShortableSynths`.

### Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
