---
sip: 2035
title: V3 Tokenomics Proposal & Base Pilot
network: Ethereum
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Adam Cochran
implementor: cc
created: 2023-09-08
requires: 
---

# Simple Summary

<p>The goal of this SIP is to define a V3 tokenomics/reward model and to test pilot that system on Base before a larger role out.</p>

# Abstract

<p>This SIP proposes a V3 system in which there are 3 pools</p><p><br></p><ul><li><strong><u>A Spartan Council Pool:</u></strong> Accepts both SNX and ETH as collateral. The collateral rate of ETH is lower and it can only be 40% of the pool.</li></ul><p><br></p><ul><li><strong><u>An SNX Staking Pool</u></strong>: A passive SNX staking pool where SNX is collateral but its LTV is 0%.</li></ul><p><br></p><ul><li><strong><u>An ETH only pool</u></strong>: ETH is collateral at a higher LTV and no-cap.</li></ul><p><br></p><p>It would provide rewards as follows:</p><p><br></p><ul><li>65% of all rewards go to the Spartan Council pool.</li><li>10% of all rewards go to the SNX Staking Pool.</li><li>10% of all rewards go to LPs.</li><li>15% of rewards go to integrators.</li></ul><p><br></p><p>This means users staking their SNX in the Spartan Council Pool would receive 65% of rewards from all pools + 10% rewards from the Spartan Council Pool.</p><p><br></p><p>This means SNX stakers still end up with the bulk of the rewards but only if they are also being active LPs.</p>

# Specification


### Overview

<p>This reward pool system provides us a method by which to onboard ETH collateral without overly diluting the value of SNX, or rewarding the value of idle SNX too much.</p>

### Rationale

<p>In order to onboard ETH as collateral, we'll need to be able to reward LPs.</p><p><br></p><p>The current debate has been between how much of the fees should go to SNX stakers versus to LPs. Which comes down to the question:</p><p><br></p><p class="ql-indent-1">"<em>Do we need to pay users to borrow, or is borrowing enough of a value add?"</em></p><p><br></p><p>The challenge becomes if SNX stakers are idle stakers without debt we are overpaying for minimal protocol gain.</p><p><br></p><p>If SNX stakers are a dedicated pool with outsized rewards we may lack the balanced composition to grow the pools in a material fashion.</p><p><br></p><p>But, if the pool is dominated by ETH then we are over paying outside mercenary capital.</p><p><br></p><p>To solve this we take a 3 pool approach with tiered risk.</p><p><br></p><ul><li>One pool that is a blend of SNX and ETH, where ETH is low oi, capped % of pool, but the rewards are high.</li><li>One pool where its SNX without debt exposure, but rewards are low.</li><li>One pool where it is ETH only and the LTV is high to allow scaling, but the rewards are low.</li></ul><p><br></p><p>This lets us validate the premise that there are likely users who will stake their ETH to borrow $snxUSD without needing to have high rewards for doing so.</p><p><br></p><p>It also lets us preserve SNX's value both in rewards and collateral while having a balanced composition in collateral backing.</p><p><br></p><p>By performing this test on Base, we are limiting ecosystem exposure and can move fast to iterate.</p>

### Test Cases

<p>TBD</p>


### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<p>Eth collateral rate for each pool TBD</p><p>SNX collateral rate for each pool TBD</p>