---
sip: 2032
title: Auto-Listing Perps Markets from DYDX v3
network: Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Burt Rock (@BurtRock)
created: 2023-08-16
---

## Simple Summary

Automatically list Perps markets from DYDX v3 on Synthetix, except for SNX. Core contributors should prioritize the following assets: THOR, SUSHI, ZEC, XTZ, UMA, ENJ, ICP, XLM, 1INCH, EOS, CELO, ALGO, ZRX.

## Abstract

This proposal suggests an enhancement to the Perps listing process on Synthetix by implementing an auto-listing mechanism for all assets listed on DYDX v3, except for SNX. The proposed change aims to expedite the listing of markets with potential demand and arbitrage opportunities while giving core contributors discretion to prioritize certain assets without requiring immediate oracle availability.

## Motivation

Perps v2 has proven to be appropriate for a variety of asset listings, and has shown to be functional, safe for LPs, and attractive to traders provided the appropriate parameters are set for each market. Individually approving each perps market and requiring a presentation for each listing has become cumbersome and time consuming, and adds very little in terms of safety checks and opportunity for the council to raise concerns since most assets do not have parameters specified in the listing SIP.

To expedite this process without removing the most important safety checks, this SIP removes potential roadblocks to listing while leaving in a final SCCP proposal requirement which allows council to prevent unpausing of markets or weigh in on parameter recommendations if necessary.

## Rationale

- Listing on DYDX v3 guarantees the presence of an arbitrage venue for each asset.
- Utilizing DYDX v3's market makers and oracles ensures off-chain liquidity and data quality.
- The SCCP process for unpausing provides safeguards against potential issues.
- Auto-listing enhances efficiency by eliminating the need for separate presentations for each asset.

## Specification

### Auto-Listing Process

For all assets listed on DYDX v3, a corresponding perps market should be created on Synthetix, except for the SNX token as soon as feeds are available.

### Exception for SNX

The SNX token will be excluded from the auto-listing process. Listing SNX on Perps markets will continue to follow the existing process, including presentations and governance approvals. This exception acknowledges SNX's role as collateral and respects historical resistance to listing SNX perps.

### Immediately approved assets

The following assets are currently listed on DYDX v3, but not listed on Synthetix, and would be eligible for auto-approval:

- THOR
- SUSHI
- ZEC
- XTZ
- UMA
- ENJ
- ICP
- XLM
- 1INCH
- EOS
- CELO
- ALGO
- ZRX

### Oracle Provider Collaboration

Core contributors should collaborate with oracle providers to ensure feeds can be made available for listing. Discretion is given to prioritize asset listings, and there's no immediate requirement for feeds to be available before the passage of this SIP. 

### SCCPs for market parameters

Although assets are auto-listed, the SCCP process will still be required to unpause any auto-listed Perps market. Subsequent SCCPs should include the following parameters for each asset:

    "makerFee": "",
    "takerFee": "",
    "takerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "takerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "maxLeverage": "",
    "maxMarketValue": "",
    "maxFundingVelocity": "",
    "skewScale": "",

    "nextPriceConfirmWindow": "",
    "delayedOrderConfirmWindow": "",
    "minDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "maxDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMinAge": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMaxAge": "",
    "offchainPriceDivergence": "",


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

