---
sip: 263
title: Clarify the Definition of Unanimity in Meta-Governance Votes
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Implemented
type: Meta-Governance
author: TerraBellus (@terrabellus)
implementor: TBD
created: 2022-07-26
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x70f2744c6fbe8348bf1bbd5a89cd1337ad6ebe5a856b9485a5fa8dfe8149d39f
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes a clarification of the circumstances in which meta-governance votes conducted by the Spartan Council may be considered valid. Should it pass, the proposed interpretation contained within this SIP would establish that affirmative votes from dismissed members of the council are unnecessary to achieve a unanimous result due to these dismissed members no longer being considered active Spartan Counsellors.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

At present, in order for meta-governance SIPs to be passed and subsequently implemented, it is required that the Spartan Council vote unanimously during the voting period of a proposed SIP. SIP-263 facilitates the continuance of meta-governance votes in cases where a Spartan Counsellor has been dismissed by specifying a unanimous vote is one in which all non-dismissed members of the council vote in the same way. This would alleviate the possibility that governance could be compromised by a well-funded single member able to continually re-elect themself to the council.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

The current assumption that meta-governance votes must unanimously pass with all members of the Spartan Council that began the epoch voting together, rather than those that are currently active, creates a weakness in the governance system. By intentionally or unintentionally hindering the implementation of proposals through a failure to vote with the other council members, a single Spartan Counsellor is able to hinder the implementation of improvements in the protocol's governance system design. What is more, were the relevant Spartan Counsellor to be removed in response to a continued failure to vote, there would be nothing to stop them being re-elected and sabotaging valid meta-governance votes going ahead indefinitely.

Should a Spartan Council member be dismissed, the interpretation of unanimity outlined in this SIP would allow meta-governance to continue in the run up to the next election (be it either a regular election or one triggered by council member dismissal). This would facilitate both the smooth continuance of the governance process, while also granting a window of opportunity during which the active council could act to prevent a danger that they might remain perpetually unable to conduct meta-governance. 

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

A unanimous meta-governance vote = All current Spartan Council members voting affirmative, with the positions of any that have been dismissed since the last council election disregarded.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
