---
sip: 297
title: Perps V2 - Fixes
network: Optimism
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x3be979b39cec45c70c29b8e41a4178dd74c7ce5fee536a18c1d0c3418ec89bff
status: Implemented
type: Governance
author: Leo (@leomassazza)
---

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Improves the liquidation fees calculation, cleans delayed order event and object params, fixes the funding rate accrual computation and introduces a cap on the fees sent to liquidators for very large liquidations.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

SIP proposes 4 fixes:

- (fix 1) zeroing unused params in `delayedOrder` object and and `DelayedOrderSubmitted` event, and
- (fix 2) include position size in Liquidation Premium calculation,
- (fix 3) replace .5 factor in Liquidation Premium calculation for an SCCP parameter, and
- (fix 4) use fillPrice (p/d adjusted) to calculate Order Fee;
- (fix 5) include price of asset in the funding accrual calculation

and an improvement:

- (imp 1) adds a cap on the liquidation fee received by keepers on large liquidations.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

During the alpha release and operation we discovered some inaccuracies on the fees calculation and information of delayed orders (object and events) and after some simulations, discovered that for very large liquidations the liquidator will be rewarded with more than necessary where the excess can be redirected to the protocol and redistributed to stakers.

## Specification

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

The fixes described in the Technical Specification solve an issue on the computation of the fees present on the current contract implementations.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

**Fix unused params**

Unused params `targetRoundId`and `executableAtTime` should be zero in the delayedOrder object and `DelayedOrderSubmitted` event if the delayed order is off-chain (`isOffchain: true`).

**Fix Liquidation Premium calculation**

Use `notionalValue` (`size * price`) instead of `price` to calculate the `liquidationPremium`.

**Fix Liquidation Premium calculation (2)**

Remove the .5 factor when computing the `liquidationPremium`, and replace by an SCCP parameter.

**Fix fee price using fillPrice (p/d adjusted)**

Use the fill price (p/d adjusted price) to compute the fill price but still use oracle price (not adjusted) to compute liquidation price.

**Fix funding accrual**

Include the price of the asset when computing a positions' funding accrual. As part of this, we also increase `maxFundingVelocity` to 72 (from 3), wait 12hours, then lower back to 3.

**Cap on liquidation fee sent to keeper**

This improvement introduces a new configuration parameter (`maxKeeperFee`) that will be used to cap the fee sent to a keeper. This cap applies for large liquidations where the keeper fee can be of several thousand dollars. The excess is redistributed to stakers to reduce the impact on the debt. The parameter initially is set to 1,000 sUSD for all markets

### Test Cases

NA

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

- `maxKeeperFee`: The maximum fee paid to liquidators
- `liquidationPremiumMultiplier`: Multiplier applied in the calculation of the liquidation Premium

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
