---
sip: 414
title:  Ability to Override Min Delegation Time for Internal Contracts
network: Ethereum, Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Robin (@robin2192)
created: 2025-02-07
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed change intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP introduces a whitelist for internal contracts to bypass the cooldown period introduced when opening or modifying V3 LP positions. This whitelist will initially be used to allow SNX holders who do not already have a V3 position to participate in delegated staking without waiting for the 7-day cooldown period to end before delegating their position to the Jubilee pool. In the future, this whitelist could be expanded to allow automated LP vaults to atomically compound rewards and repay debt without a 24 hour delay.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done.-->

This SIP proposes the creation of an override function for minimum delegation time, which is currently hardcoded to 7 days for new V3 LP positions. Similar functionality already exists for individual accounts, but this proposal extends this functionality to be used by various internal contracts.

This override will initially be applied to an intermediate staking contract which allows for atomic staking, snxUSD minting, and deposit into the delegated pool. Without this mechanism in the current implementation of V3, users must first stake SNX and then wait 7 days before their position is unlocked for migration. This cooldown window introduces significant friction into the delegated staking process for new SNX staking participants, and will undoubtedly cause many to rethink their participation. 

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.-->

The current process for delegated staking requires SNX holders to first enter solo staking, endure a 7-day cooldown, and then migrate to the delegated pool. By removing the cooldown, this proposal lowers the barrier to entry for non-stakers.

## Specification

<!--There are five sections in the Specification:
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values (Via SCCP)
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of how the SIP will solve the problem.-->

1. **Create an intermediate staking contract with a 0-day cooldown window**  
   - This contract will be used to atomically stake at a configued c-ratio (initially 1000%, per [SIP-420](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-420/)), deposit to the delegated pool, and return snxUSD to the depositor.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem.-->

The rationale behind this proposal is:  
1. **Increased Delegated Staking Rate by Reducing Friction**  
   - Removing the 7-day cooldown window between staking and depositing to the delegated pool increases the likelihood that a prospective new staker will participate.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed.-->

The proposal will be implemented via new and modified smart contracts, with the following key components:

1. Intermediate Staking Contract
   - Instant Deposit: The contract accepts unstaked SNX deposits and immediately stakes the tokens without imposing a cooldown period.
   - Atomic Migration: Once deposited, the contract automatically migrates the SNX to the protocol-owned delegated staking pool in one atomic transaction.
   - Loan Issuance: Upon successful deposit and staking, the contract calculates and issues an snxUSD loan based on a configurable LTV ratio, ensuring the user’s position remains overcollateralized.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation.-->

Planned tests will include:  
- Verify that the staking, migration to the delegated pool, and sUSD loan issuance occur in a single atomic transaction.
- Verify that after migration, the delegated staking pool accurately reflects the user's staking position.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

- C-ratio for new stakers/delegated stakers (initially 1000% following [SIP-420's](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-420/) proposed configuration).
- Account min delegate time (initially 0 for the intermediate staking contract)  

## Copyright

All content herein is licensed under [CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
