---
sip: 314
<<<<<<< HEAD
title: Spot Markets (V3)
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: 'Afif Bandak (@aband1), Noah Litvin (@noahlitvin), Sunny Vempati (@sunnyvempati)'
implementor: 'Sunny Vempati (@sunnyvempati)'
created: 2022-10-27
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes a spot market implementation, issuing ERC-20 tokens that can be exchanged for snxUSD at a rate determined by a price feed plus or minus fees.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

The spot market implementation outlined below will allow anyone to create a synthetic asset by specifying a price feed, an optional contract address which calculates fees, and other configurable settings.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

Rather than consolidating all spot synth exchange functionality into a single system, the V3 architecture allows us to encapsulate logic for markets into seperate systems. This modular architecture allows for more rapid experimentation and iteration for configurable aspects of particular assets (like fee structures) while still being able to re-use core logic across all spot markets.

Note that markets exist outside of core system and, therefore, are generally not within the scope of governance. In this case, the market implementation proposed relies on the [market-provided collateral](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-256/) feature to maximize scalability, so governance should approve of the market's mechanism and future upgrades.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

The proposed implementation involves core spot market logic, optional rebasing functionality on the token, and fee calculator contracts.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

This implementation is essentially a factory, with the ability to generate new assets with a single function call. A major benefit of this approach is that users can create and configure markets without needing to deploy smart contracts themselves. If this implementation is upgraded in the future, all assets created in this way will benefit from the upgrade.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

#### Buying & Selling

The market module will implement the following functions:

- `function buy(uint amountUsd)` - This takes the amount of snxUSD provided, applies fees, and converts it to an amount of synthetic assets to mint.
- `function sell(uint sellAmount)` - This takes the amount of synthetic assets provided, applies fees, and converts it to an amount of snxUSD to withdraw.
- `function reportedDebt(uint128 marketId)` - This returns the total supply of synths multiplied by the current price.

#### Wrapping

A market can optionally specify an address for an ERC-20 _equivalent asset_. This asset should be an accepted collateral type on the core protocol, and this particular market should be permitted to deposit it with the [Market-provided Collateral](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-308/) functionality. The enables the following functions:

- `function wrap(uint amount)` - Deposit the `amount` of equivalent assets into the protocol and issue the same amount of synthetic assets, after applying a fee.
- `function unwrap(uint amount)` - Withdraw the `amount` of equivalent assets into the protocol and burn the same amount of synthetic assets, after applying a fee.

#### Auto-Rebalancing Skew

In addition to any fee calculators that a market may want to implement, the following fee structure would create an _auto-rebalancing skew_, allowing a market to use wrapping functionality in such a way that reduces protocol risk. A (positive or negative) fee could be applied as a function of _market skew_, defined as the total supply of synths minus the amount of wrapped collateral. Similar to the mechanism outlined in [SIP-279](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-279/), this creates an arbitrage opportunity that will pull the skew back into a tolerance range defined by the function.

#### Supply Targets

Another potential fee calculator could enforce a _supply target_ (a configurable amount of synths) which helps limit backers' exposure to price fluctuations of the asset in situations where demand becomes very high. A _utilization rate_ could be calculated as the ratio between the market skew and the supply target. If the utilization rate exceeds 100% a fee could be applied when buying the asset (and this fee could scale up with any increase to the utilization rate).

#### Locking

To reduce risk to synth holders and stakers, the market could also [lock](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-309/) an amount of collateral as a function of the utilization rate.

#### Interest Rate

Synths could also configure an interest rate, implemented as a rebase token. The interest rate could be a configured as a fixed percentage, a function of the utilization rate, or a combination of both.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->
=======
title: V3 fee sharing
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: cyberduck, ivan, chatGPT
implementor: n/a
created: 2022-12-07
requires: 
---

# Simple Summary

<p>This SIP outlines how fees are shared to protocol participants in Synthetix V3.</p>

# Abstract

Fees captured by the protocol are split between collateral liquidity providers (LPs) and SNX stakers. Staked SNX receives a percentage of the fees captured by the protocol rent-free across all V3 pools. This fee is to be defined separately for each individual pool through governance. The ratio at which fees are split is to be decided by the Spartan Council and can be changed via SCCP.

# Specification


### Overview

Each V3 pool has a variable specifying the ratio of fees that goes to SNX stakers regardless of being a collateral or not. There is a global variable that enforces a minimum value for all pools.

Additionally, SNX may be used as a collateral token if designated by the pool manager. This would allow SNX LPs to capture additional fees. 

### Technical Specification

Protocol fees are to be split between collateral liquidity providers and SNX stakers according to a configurable `protocol_fee` expressed in decimal for each individual pool, where the value set represents the fees shared with SNX stakers. 

Additionally, a global configurable `min_protocol_fee` governs the minimum value for any pool's protocol_fee.

With the implementation of this proposal, the initial fee percentages are to be set as follows:

`min_protocol_fee` = 


### Rationale

This design aims to reward providers of any collateral type while also rewarding SNX stakers regardless of them providing collateral. 

Pools in Synthetix V3 can be backed by ETH and other types of collateral as voted by the Spartan Council. To incentivise liquidity some kind of rewards must be provided to LPs - inflationary or protocol fees, which affects the value of SNX and tokenomics in status quo. While inflation towards other token types dilutes existing SNX holders, fees captured by other token types are fees not captured by SNX. This could lead to a decrease in the demand for SNX and a potential reduction in its value and inherently in the value of SNX used for any incentives within the protocol or externally in AMMs or bribes. 

One potential solution to incentivize liquidity providers and not devalue holding SNX in Synthetix v3 is to introduce a ratio of how fees are shared. Instead of 100% of fees being shared with liquidity providers, a portion of the fees is to be shared with SNX stakers without the need for them to provide SNX as collateral, allowing SNX stakers to earn fees passively without taking on debt risks. This would help to maintain the demand for SNX and its value, while also providing sufficient rewards to liquidity providers. 


### Test Cases




### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

`protocol_fee` for each individual pool
`min_protocol_fee` as a global variable

>>>>>>> master

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
