---
sip: 232
network: Ethereum
title: Core Contributor Committee Responsibilities amendment
status: To be approved
author: Ana Ta
implementor: Andy T CF (@andytcf)
release: N/A
created: 2022-04-21T00:00:00.000Z
type: Meta-Governance
proposal: >-
---

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes minor amendments to the Core Contributor Committee (CCC) SIP-161 to help clarify CCCs responsibilties and only mentions modifications made to SIP-161.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "We propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

This SIP clarifies the following Core Contributor Committee responsibilies, while keeping the original responsibilities in place:

- Former CCs will no longer be able to become a part of CCCs
- CCCs will no longer be managing the Core Contributor road-map
- CCCs additionally to managing Core Contributor incentive packages and compensations on a regular basis, will also manage the same aspects of External Contributors
- CCCs will be responsible for overall decision making on behalf of CCs and their matters
- CCCs will be collecting inputs from different departments on the processes, resourcing and other feedback
- Conduct regular 1-on-1s
- Will act as a managing and leadership body of the CCs and will be directly or indirectly responsble for an execution of all their responsbilities

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

Additionally, to the original motivation for having CCCs, there is a need of a leadership and management body for CCs to make sure all required work is being implemented in a timely and effective manner. It is an overseeing body of an overall progress and a direct CCs representative for the community and other governing bodies. 

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high-level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

The Core Contributor Committee will now have to consist of three Core Contributors, where one of them has to be from engineering and other 2, ideally, from 2 other different specialisations. Amendments on the decisions to be made by CCCs:

- External Contributors will be added to the CCs Resourcing & Prioritization 
- Protocol Road-map and Vision is no longer a part of CCCs responsibilities
- CCCs are now a leadership and management body of CCs

#### Core Contributor Engagement/Disengagement

No change here.

_See [Test-Cases](#Test-Cases) for examples_

#### Core Contributor Incentivization

CCCs are no longer to be eleceted every 3 months, they are now to be elected every 6 months.
CCs compensations and packages are now to be reviewed at least every 6 months or earlier, instead of every 3 months. 

_See [Test-Cases](#Test-Cases) for examples_

#### Core Contributor Resourcing & Prioritization

No change.

_SIPs_

All the original SIP-related responsibilites in SIP-161 are to be conducted directly or indirectly by the CCCs, meaning that CCCs may choose to delegate such responsibilites to an existing CC or determine that there is a lack of suitables CCs for particular roles and take necessary actions to fill the gaps. The goal of CCCs is to make sure that these responsibilites are implemented in a timely and effective manner one way or another

_Non-Technical Work_

All the original non-technical work responsibilites in SIP-161 are to be conducted directly or indirectly by the CCCs, meaning that CCCs may choose to delegate such responsibilites to an existing CC or determine that there is a lack of suitables CCs for particular roles and take necessary actions to fill the gaps. The goal of CCCs is to make sure that these responsibilites are implemented in a timely and effective one way or another

_Protocol Maintenance Work_

All the original protocol maintenance work responsibilites in SIP-161 are to be conducted directly or indirectly by the CCCs, meaning that CCCs may choose to delegate such responsibilites to an existing CC or determine that there is a lack of suitables CCs for particular roles and take necessary actions to fill the gaps. The goal of CCCs is to make sure that these responsibilites are implemented in a timely and effective one way or another

#### Protocol Road-map and Vision

CCCs will no longer be responsible for protocol road-map and vision.

#### Core Contributor Committee Stipends & Transparency

CCCs are no longer to perform their duties with no compensation, they are now to be paid a 1000 SNX monthly compensation per each member.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs? The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

No change

_Voting System_

No change

_Core Contributor Engagement_

No change

_Core Contributor Compensation_

No change

_Core Contributor Vision and Prioritization_

No change

### Technical Specification

#### Infrastructure

No change

#### Metagovernance

The Core Contributor Committee elections will no longer happen every epoch (3 months) aligned with the other DAO bodies epoch length (currently set to 3 months), CCCs elections will happen every 6 months due to the nature of CCCs responsibilites and the requirement to be consistent with the budgets and other matters.

Additionally, election process will be set in a way to elect at least 1 person from engineering in order to represent engineering CCs. An ideal split would be to have 1 engineering, 1 product & 1 marketing and/or other CC elected to cover a variety of responsibilities within the protocol.

### Test Cases

_Discretion in Budgeting_

No change

_Roadmap & Priorities_ name changed to '_Prioritisation_'

No change

New Example no.3
_Management & Leadership_

CCC consists of 2 engineering and 1 design CCs. The protocol is at it's peak of popularity within crypto community and majority of other big projects want to create a partnership or a collaboration with Synthetix. CCs are flat out with their primary responsibilies and it's been noticed that the protocol is starting to miss out on great collaboration opportunites.

CCCs aren't competent in partnerships management and/or bizdev and realised that current CCs are in the same situation or are already too busy to take on another responsibility, hence decided to find a new CC to take on solely partnership and collaborations management. 

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->
- The # of members on the Core Contributor Committee
## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
