---
sip: 176
title: Enable Continuous Account Merging
status: Draft
author: Rafa (@rafanator)
discussions-to: https://discord.gg/CDTvjHY

created: 2021-08-23
---
<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the SIP.-->
Make Account Merging always possible in order to enable transferring escrowed SNX balances to a different account.

## Abstract
<!--A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.-->

SNX inflation rewards for stakers are currently locked for 52 weeks. This escrowed SNX is locked to an account and cannot be transferred, but can be used as collateral to mint more sUSD. 

This forces stakers to use the same account, and has caused friction for users with small accounts that couldn’t afford claiming, limited compostability, and made UX worse. 

This SIP intends to make account merging for any escrowed SNX balance (including partial amounts) possible at any time.  

## Motivation
<!--The motivation is critical for SIPs that want to change Synthetix. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the SIP solves. SIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.-->

Not being able to merge accounts has caused several problems to stakers, such as: 

- Small stakers foregoing rewards due to inability to consolidate large wallets
- Less accounts staking as SNX is escrowed in wallets that are not maintained
- Limiting composability impedes using flashloans for debt repayment 
- Staking pools cannot operate efficiently 
- Overall worsening of UX

Continuous Account Merging was initially proposed and rejected in SIP-13 Account Merging, on concerns of having a secondary market of escrowed SNX that could have a negative impact on the protocol. Since then, the protocol manages necessary account merging on timed windows that are enabled via SCCP.

Account merging windows have become bigger, and previous concerns regarding negative impacts of a secondary market of escrowed SNX have not materialized. Additionally, any OTC or secondary market buyer of escrowed SNX will still be purchasing the locked asset, which signals alignment with the protocol. 

It is important to note that Continuous Account Merging can be reversed at any time via another SIP.

## Specification
<!--The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature.-->
A user will be able to sign a transaction assigning an amount of SNX tokens in the Reward Escrow Contract from the signing wallet to a new wallet. The reassignment process will check to ensure that there is no debt against the SNX tokens being reassigned. 

## Rationale
<!--The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->
Initially, a more full featured transfer mechanism that merged the total balances of two wallets was considered, however, the effort to build this is significantly larger than the function specified in this SIP, so this method will allow to implement the change much faster and will place the burden of transferring unlocked SNX onto the user.

## Implementation
<!--The implementations must be completed before any SIP is given status "Implemented", but it need not be completed before the SIP is "Approved". While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->


No changes in architecture are required, as the merge window on the current escrow contract can be extended to a very long amount of time (like uint256(-1)) making it permanent.

The escrow migration service will be able to flash loan sUSD, burn all debt, migrate SNX and optionally sell down some SNX if the ratio is below 400%. By modifying the account merge window to be always on, this functionality can be integrated into staking.synthetix.io.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

*Disclosure: nothing in this porposal is financial advice or a recommendation to engage in any sort of financial transactions.* 
