---
sip: 2022
title: Adding PUNK, MILADY, AZUKI, PUDGY and BAYC to Synthetix Perps 
network:  Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Gautham and Tata Martins
---

## Simple Summary

Create Synthetix Perps markets for NFT collection: PUNK, MILADY, AZUKI, PUDGY and BAYC.

## Abstract

This is a proposal to offer PUNK, MILADY, AZUKI, PUDGY and BAYC NFT perps markets under Perps.

## Motivation

The introduction of perpetuals related to NFTs, such as CryptoPunks, Milady, Azuki, Pudgy Penguins, and Bored Ape Yacht Club, presents an opportunity for Synthetix to enter the growing market of NFTs, enables traders to diversify and explore new strategies. Since the competition in this space is still relatively small, it is crucial to capture this volume sooner rather than later.

## Rationale

PUNK, MILADY, AZUKI, PUDGY and BAYC are some of the most traded NFT collections on the market. This addition would not only attract new users from NFT-related communities but also provide Synthetix with the chance to diversify its range of perps. As more traders participate in trading the perpetuals, the trading volume will increase, resulting in direct benefits for SNX stakers.
## Specification

## Specification

Spot data was obtained on May 19th via Coingecko from the following exchanges: Blur, OpenSea, LooksRare, Cryptopunks, x2y2. Perp data is from NFT Perp, Tribe3 and NFEX.

| Coin Name 	|  24 Hour Spot Volume | 24 Hour Perp Volume |
|-----------	|--------------------  | ------------------  |
| PUNK       	| $3,511,647 	       | $1,459,660.60.      |
| MILADY        | $943,520 	           | $961,419.30         |
| AZUKI         | $715,864             | $488,044.60         |
| PUDGY         | $1,301,459           | $402,729.20         |
| BAYC          | $1,742,908           | $678,074.10         |

This 24-hour volume shows that there is ample volume traded, which points to an appetite for traders. Subsequent data will be shown in SCCPs as reasoning for particular configurable values. Since NFT perps are new, it would be best to start with a small cap and increase based on adoption. 

When setting subsequent parameters, it's important to note that steth and wsteth do not have any CEX/DEX perpetual futures markets. This may not be much of a helpful consideration for steth, as it tracks the eth price; however, it may be important for wsteth, which accrues staking rewards in its value.

Upon approval, markets will be paused, and SCCPs must be created to unpause the market and set configurable variables after feeds have been properly tested.

## Technical Specification

Implementation requires implementing off-chain oracle price feeds from Pyth Network and backup on-chain oracles from Chainlink.

Configurable values (read below) will be set in a subsequent SCCP for each market or bundled into one SCCP unpausing all markets.

## Test Cases

n/a

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

All Perps V2 configurable values will be set in subsequent SCCPS for each market.

    "makerFee": "",
    "takerFee": "",
    "takerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "takerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "maxLeverage": "",
    "maxMarketValue": "",
    "maxFundingVelocity": "",
    "skewScale": "",
    "nextPriceConfirmWindow": "",
    "delayedOrderConfirmWindow": "",
    "minDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "maxDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMinAge": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMaxAge": "",
    "offchainPriceDivergence": "",

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).


