---
sip: 2057
network: Arbitrum
title: Deploy Synthetix V2 on Arbitrum
author: yangit69 (@ankitpal1029), gautham (@gauthamzz), Burt Rock (@BurtRock)
status: Draft
created: 2024-02-20
type: Governance
---

## Simple Summary

Deploy Synthetix V2 on Arbitrum

## Abstract

This proposal aims to get Synthetix Perpetual Futures deployed on to Arbitrum the L2 chain.

## Motivation

While Synthetix Perps have performed really well on Optimism providing liquidity for trading 72 markets and driving a volume of $40B+, while being delta neutral and providing good returns to stakers.

This is a clear indicator of the superiority of the tech behind Synthetix and all the risk management policies in place. All this was achieved on Optimism L2 which has a TVL of $882M [OP DefiLlama](https://defillama.com/chain/Optimism) in comparison to Arbitrum with a TVL of $3.02B [ARB DefiLLama](https://defillama.com/chain/Arbitrum). These numbers in itself are a good indicator of the opportunity being missed by Synthetix in capturing market share amongst other perpetual futures projects.

Arbitrum clearly has the biggest Defi ecosystem amongst all L2s. This is the case even with Perpetual Futures products like GMX, Vertex, MUX, etc. Given this information it only makes sense for Synthetix to deploy on Arbitrum to garner some of this attention from users in the Arbitrum community.

OP incentive that Synthetix had lead to significantly higher trading volumes. In extension to this Arbitrum has a massive incentive program STIP (Short Term Incentive Program) of 50M ARB tokens (and an upcoming Round 2 of this as well). Some projects like GMX have got 12 million $ARB allocated.

## Specification

See DefiLlama for info.

### Technical Specification

Requires Pyth and Chainlink oracles.

### Test Cases

N/A

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

The configurable values related to deploying on Synthetix will be updated and maintained as per SCCP guidelines.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
