---
sip: 2004
title: Better DelayedOrder Integration/Trading Experience
network: Optimism
status: Approved
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0xe0bcf1b84a53395b8ee1de3ae4766303e1ea4b435c6427bd3287e6d1961bd9d9
type: Governance
author: David (@davidvuong)
implementor: David (@davidvuong)
created: 2023-02-06
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Improve integration experience for frontends and trading experience for real end users.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

We propose the following:

1. New `submitClose{Offchain}DelayedOrderWithTracking` function(s) that operates similarly to `closePosition` but for delayed orders (both on and off-chain). Closing a position without needing to specify size.
1. Allow a non-liquidatable position to be reduced/closed _iff_ it does not place the position into liquidation.
1. Remove the commitment fee required at order submission (both on and off-chain) and disallow cancellations until after the confirmation window is over.
1. Move `liquidationBufferRatio` from globally configurable (i.e. across all markets) to be market specific.
1. Update the price protection design from the current `priceImpactDelta` to a `desiredPrice` design.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

Since the initial release of PerpsV2, we've received repeated questions and suggestions from integrators to make it easier for future integration/usage. This is one of many coming SIPs that implements said feedback, improve experience overall, and empower integrators to build the best possible UX.

In reference to the proposed changes defined above:

1. It's not obvious that inverting a position size is the same as closing. Adding a `submitCloseXXX()` function simplifies and abstracts out technical details for devs to focus on frontends.
1. Not allowing a safe position to reduce/close without adding more margin can irritate users, making them feel trapped, overall a bad experience.
1. The commitment fee was added to allow traders to cancel their order before it was executed. It's generally regarded as bad or confusing UX. Off-chain delayed orders have an expeditious execution process. Removing the ability to cancel means no longer needing an upfront commitment fee. Assuming execution keepers are operating correctly, is it rarely possible to cancel an order before the order is executed.
1. As an example, forex markets should have different liquidation buffers compared to crypto as they're not as volatile. Having this global means we don't have the flexiblity to adjust for this.
1. The main motivation behind the `desiredPrice` approach is to provide traders with the necessary tools to protect their trades from changes in asset prices between the time a trade is committed and is eventually executed. Although the current state of optimism doesn't incorporate public mempools, rendering it resistant to MEV attacks, this might no longer be the case in future optimism updates. 

## Specification

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

The following functions will be added to `Delayed{Offchain}Orders` to abstract closing of orders:

```
function submitCloseOffchainDelayedOrderWithTracking(
  uint priceImpactDelta,
  bytes32 trackingCode
) external;

function submitCloseDelayedOrderWithTracking(
    uint desiredTimeDelta,
    uint priceImpactDelta,
    bytes32 trackingCode
) external;
```

A change within `_updatePositionMargin` to consider whether the new order is reducing the position size. If indeed true, we avoid performing the `_maxLeverage` assertion that's currently disallowing order closure without the addition of more margin.

Eliminate `commitDeposit` (whether it be set to zero or removal) upon submission, then update/adjustment of subsequent downstream interactions during execution and cancellation operations (if the order becomes stale) to no longer consider `commitDeposit`. Note that this also makes the `overrideCommitFee` redundant.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
