---
sip: 242
title: OP Token Distribution
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Millie, Matt, Mojo
implementor: TBC
discussions-to: Discord
created: 2022-05-19
---

## Simple Summary

This SIP proposes a distribution mechanism for OP tokens to be claimed from the Optimism Governance Fund.

## Abstract

OP tokens will be distributed to projects that have deployed on Optimism, the specifics of that distribution must be decided by Synthetix governance. This SIP proposes a distribution that aligns with the previous approach taken by the council for an orderly migration between L1 and L2.

## Motivation

Synthetix governance must decide on how to distribute OP tokens to the community.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

9m OP have been granted to Synthetix

5m will be used over six months for incentives toward an SNX/OP pool on Uniswap using the UniV3 staker contract

1m will be used over six months to incentivize sUSD/USDC liquidity on Uniswap using the UniV3 staker contract

1m is to be distributed to SNX stakers on Optimism over the next three months. This distribution will be based on weighted debt tied to the weekly snapshot starting from the first snapshot after the OP token launch in late May.

2m OP are to be held for potential builders grants, trading rewards, or other unforeseen incentives needed to bootstrap usage on Optimism over the course of 3-6 months. This portion of the allocation is to be held by the treasury council with the voting power delegated to the Ambassadors until it is spent for incentives.

### Rationale

This SIP builds on the initial OP distribution proposal from Kain (SIP-234) which had been modified after feedback from the community. Based on further community feedback it was determined that a more comprehensive distribution was needed with details of how the OP allocation would be used for liquidity incentives.

In addition this SIP proposes to keep 2m OP tokens for grants or potential trading incentives or bridge incentives to bootstrap Synthetix usage on Optimism, while also taking into account the fact that it's unclear at the moment where the exact need for increased protocol incentives are. For example 30days after the launch of the OP token we may see that there are some liquidity bottle necks or that sUSD liquidity is not at the expected level or that KWENTA trading rewards are not stimulating trading volume, in any of those hypothetical events a portion or all of the remaining OP tokens could be used to address those needs.

The expectation is that the left over 2m OP tokens (to be held for future incentives or grants) is to be used within 3-6 months of the OP token launch and in the meanwhile have the voting power delegated to the Ambassadors so we may participate actively and represent SNX in Optimism Governance as delegates of the Token Haus.

One other modification within this SIP to the one drafted by Kain, is that we propose to incentivize SNX/OP liquidity rather than SNX/ETH liquidity. The reason behind this is that we believe it's best to normalize the pairing of tokens with OP on Optimism given that it is the native token of the rollup and as a show of good faith to Optimism Governance. Additionally we believe that the likely hood in which Optimism governance allocates another future portion of OP tokens for SNX liquidity after 6 months, is much greater if it also supports OP liquidity as well.



### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

The actual distribution for SNX stakers is likely to be done via merkle drop, but we are monitoring the Optimism ecosystem to see whether it is possible to leverage code developed by another project for the OP distribution.

The distribution for SNX/OP incentives and sUSD/USDC incentives are to be done using the UniswapV3Staker.sol contract which was audited and reviewed by the Uniswap team and industry experts. The deployment of this contract is about as simple as the deployment of the original Synthetix staking.sol contract which has been commonly forked and used to distribute staking rewards.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
