---
sip: 387
title: List MOG-PERP on Perps v3 on Base
network: Base
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Wot-Is-Goin-On (@wot_is_goin_on)
created: 2024-05-18
---

## Simple Summary

List MOG-PERP on Perps v3 on the Base network.

## Abstract

List newly launched MOG-PERP market on Perps v3 on the Base network, expanding the range of v3 markets to include an additional market which has drawn recent market attention. Listing will require a Pyth oracle feed on Base (now available) and perps listing on a major centralized exchange (MOG is listed on Crypto.com and HTX). 

## Motivation

Synthetix should strive to be the quickest perps platform to list markets for assets that have captured market interest. This ethos will position Synthetix best for integrators as well, as the a value proposition to choose Synthetix as the infrastructure on which to build. The largest MOG Twitter accounts have a combined following of over 10m accounts with high engagement and hence listing MOG perps is cost effective marketing for Synthetix. MOG perps were listed on Bybit on 16th May 2024 and traded over $20m in volume (level with $ETC $LTC $APT).

MOG is the internet's first culture coin. Its community were one of the first to bridge to Bitcoin as a BRC-20 token in 2023, and one of the first projects to bridge to Base. You'll see us with Pit Vipers on our pfps and irl. Use discount code 'MOG69' to buy a pair at PitViper.com.


## Specification

### Rationale

Introducing new assets to Perps v3 ASAP will help Synthetix appeal to its existing traders and encourage new user acquisition.

### Technical Specification

- Requires a Pyth oracle on Base and perps listing on a major centralized exchange. Both of these are available.

### Test Cases

- n/a

### Configurable Values

- To be set via SCCP for each market.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
