---
sip: 2060
network: Optimism
title: List AR on SNX Perps v2
author: Vie (@vieyang)
status: Draft
created: 2024-03-09
type: Governance
---

## Simple Summary

List [AR](https://www.coingecko.com/en/coins/arweave) on Synthetix Perpetual Futures.

## Abstract

This proposal aims to list AR perpetual futures on Synthetix Perps, allowing traders to gain exposure or hedge against AR in the Synthetix ecosystem.

## Motivation

[Arweave](https://arweave.org/) is a decentralized network that leverages blockchain technology to provide a permanent data storage and sharing solution. With a one-time fee, Arweave offers a perpetual storage solution for files and data. Its unique data structure, known as the blockweave, allows for efficient and scalable storage of vast amounts of data, addressing issues of data loss or tampering common in traditional cloud storage services.

Recently, Arweave launched [ao](https://ao.arweave.dev/), a distributed computing platform running on the Arweave network. The core objective of ao is to create a unified computing environment, or a Single System Image (SSI), through a network of nodes connected by its core data protocol. This design enables multiple independently running processes to interconnect through an open message-passing layer, forming a collaborative network environment similar to the internet. With ao, Arweave not only extends its capabilities from pure data storage to a broader domain of distributed computing but also provides a modular and flexible platform that supports various computing needs, thereby advancing the development of decentralized computing and storage technologies.

## Specification

See Coingecko for info.

### Technical Specification

Requires Pyth and Chainlink oracles.

### Test Cases

N/A

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

The configurable values follows other Perps V2 market and will be update on separate SCCP.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
