---
sip: 215
title: Multi-Collateral Loans V2
network: Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Mark E. Barrasso (@barrasso), Kaleb (@kaleb-keny), bojan
created: 2022-03-03
---

## Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Improvements and new features to the shorting and multi-collateral loan contracts includes:
 - Allowing for instant liquidation of shorts and loans
 - Configuration of collateralization ratio, minting fee and interest rate, by product type and synth set by governance
 - Incorporating dynamic fees on interactions that increase or decrease short positions
 - Limiting interactions on shorts and loans when the exchange on the synth is suspended
 - Allow governance to limit `open` and `draw` on loans and shorts
 - ERC-20 backed loans would be deprecated on optimism
 - Adding convenience functions that help partners integrate

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "We propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

This SIP proposes several significant improvements to the shorts  [SIP-103](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-103) and the Multi-Collateral loans [SIP-97](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-97) that changes significantly the liquidation methodology. The sip also allows governance to control the interest rate, collateralization and fee aspects of loans and shorts. Lastly, the sip introduces convenience functions that help partners with their integrations.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

### Instant Liquidation of Shorts and Loans

Efficiency and economic safety of the current ETH loan system is further improved with collapsible functionality. This will be reflected in:
- Lower Minimum Collateral Ratio before becoming eligible for liquidation, which means Synthetix could offer loans with higher LTV (Loan-To-Value) to its users. 
- Ability to have profitable liquidations even in situations when sUSD peg is experiencing extreme premium, making sure that the loan system functions properly in those circumstances.
- The debt pool capturing the bulk of the rewards related to liquidation
- Ultra efficient and composable loan system as a building block in DeFi, by allowing other protocols to use it and build more complex products on top of it i.e margin trading.

#### Liquidation of Shorts
The proposed liquidation mechanism workflow for shorts is as follows:
- Short have a specified `minCollateralizationRatio` and `liquidationRatio`
- When a short position drops below the `liquidationRatio` a keeper can trigger liquidation
- A short position is liquidated by collapsing it, i.e. the loan position is closed and the collateral (sUSD) is sent to the fee pool for stakers to claim
- The liquidator receives a configurable percentage of the collateral as compensation, capped at a configurable amount (denominated in sUSD)

#### Liquidation of ETH backed loans
The proposed liquidation mechanism workflow for ETH backed loans is as follows:
- Loans have a specified `minCollateralizationRatio` and `liquidationRatio`
- When a loan drops below the `liquidationRatio` a keeper can trigger liquidation
- A loan position is liquidated by clearing the debt, the collateral (ETH) is sent to the ETH Wrappr
- The liquidator receives a configurable percentage of the collateral as compensation, capped at a configurable amount (denominated in ETH)

### Interest Rate, Liquidation Ratio, Minimum Collateralization Ratio and Minting Fees

The sip proposes to change the parameterization of loans, so that `interestRatePerSecond`, `liquidationRatio`, `minimumCollateralizationRatio` and `mintingFee` are all configurable by SCCP governance for each collateral / synth pair on both shorts and loans. The current state of the protocol requires some flexibility in terms of parameterization of loans, as to allow us to control the supply of synths to achieve a certain objective, such as scale up the debt pool while decreasing our reliance on wrapprs. Relying on functions of a debt pool, where it's components change based on new products releases reduces the flexibility to tweak these parameters. Futhremore, having standard 1 parameter applied on all loans and shorts regardless of the synths limits our flexibility in terms raising the supply of a certain synth, while restricting another. Note that interest rates component is computed and settled as per the mechanism specified in SIP-97 and SIP-103

### Dynamic Fees

The current shorting have mintingFees then warranted because of the oracle latency. Incorporating a dynamic fee component to shorts, as specified in [SIP-184](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-184/) will allow us to lower the mintingFee by around 50% on most synths. The parameter of the `exchangeDynamicFeeRounds`, `exchangeDynamicFeeThreshold`, `exchangeDynamicFeeWeightDecay` and `exchangeMaxDynamicFee` are those specified in `SystemSettings` contract. Where the fee paid the fee pool when a short position is interacted with that increase the size of the short position, i.e. (`openShort`,`draw`).

### Limiting Interactions with Loans and Shorts
The below limitations on certain interactions are proposed as to safeguard the protocol from events that warrants suspending loans and shorts, as the case of having oracle being suspended for `XAU`/`XAG` shorts. 
- Limit interactions of `withdraw`,  `draw`, `repay` and `liquidate` on shorts and loans, when the exchange of the synth is suspended. However, continue to allow for `deposits` despite suspension of the shorted or borrwed synth by the exchange.
- Allow via governance to suspend specific borrowed synths or shorted synths from being open or the size of existing loans and shorts from increasing. This allows governance to have a more fine tuned control over specific loans and shorts, rather then the existing approach of only being able to suspend all shorts or all loans. 

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

This new iteration of multi-collateral loans will consist of several improvements to the existing contracts. Including:

1. Refactoring existing code
2. Adding convenience functions
3. Adding new features to loans and shorts

**Refactor Existing Code**

- Update `CollateralManager.getBorrowRate` to get the total issued synths value from the oracle.
- Update `Collateral._repayWithCollateral` to conform to return pattern of the other loan functions.
- Refactor all interest rate models and make it configurable via sccp
- Refactor the old liquidation mechanism on loans and shorts
  - e.g. insta-liquidation trigger at a configurable c-ratio
- Other various nomenclature edits to make the code more readable

**Convenience Functions**

- Add view function to get all loans for a specific account: `getLoansForAccount(address account)`.
- Add view function to get all longable and shortable synths: `getSynths()` and `getShortableSynths()`.
- Add view function to get the accrued interest value for a loan: `getAccruedInterestForLoan(uint id)`.
- Add function to set a short position's principal and collateral to specified values: `setShortAndCollateralTo(uint x, uint y)`.

**New Features**

- Loan and short positions will be represented as ERC-721 tokens.
- Add varied interest rates for each synth.
- Add dynamic fee for opening and closing a short, with configurable base fee.
- Add configurable min c-ratio for each type of loan taken against ETH
  - e.g. sETH/ETH loan min cratio is 111% while sUSD/ETH loans min cratio 120%

**State Migration**

This SIP will also require a migration of all the `Loan` state and `CollateralManagerState` to the new contracts.
This will be done in a similar way to how the debt share migration process worked in SIP-185.


### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
