---
sip: 376
title: List 11 markets from Perps v2 on Perps v3 on Base
network: Base
status: Approved
type: Governance
author: Danny Sacks (@danny_sacks), Burt Rock (@BurtRock)
created: 2024-04-08
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x2b815639495e25e2245369aff8df5e6a0cf021bfb5a50e9fb12e9218e85cc217
---

## Simple Summary

List DOGE-PERP, AVAX-PERP, OP-PERP, ORDI-PERP, PEPE-PERP, RUNE-PERP, BONK-PERP, FTM-PERP, ARB-PERP, MATIC-PERP, and BNB-PERP on Perps v3 on the Base network.

## Abstract

List DOGE-PERP, AVAX-PERP, OP-PERP, ORDI-PERP, PEPE-PERP, RUNE-PERP, BONK-PERP, FTM-PERP, ARB-PERP, MATIC-PERP, and BNB-PERP markets on Perps v3 on the Base network, expanding the range of v3 markets to include these additional markets which high volume markets on Perps v2 on Optimism and are yet to be listed on Perps v3 on Base.

## Motivation

Now that LP caps have been raised to $21.92M, we should start introducing markets which are successful in the v2 system on Optimism into the v3 system on Base. These markets all have a history of strong demand on v2 and will facilitate user migration to v3.

## Specification

### Rationale

Introducing a broad mix of high-demand markets to Perps v3 will help us appeal to our existing traders and encourage migration as we scale our new system. These markets, having been active and popular in the v2 setup, are anticipated to contribute significantly to the trading volume and dynamism of the v3 platform.

### Technical Specification

- Requires a Pyth oracle on Base for each market.

### Test Cases

- n/a

### Configurable Values

- To be set via SCCP for each market.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

