---
sip: 331
title: Adding view function to retrieve market address by market id
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Noisekit
implementor: Noisekit
created: 2023-07-11
---

## Simple Summary

This proposal suggests adding a `getMarketAddress` function to the `MarketManagerModule` in the Synthetix Protocol, which will allow devs to retrieve the address of a deployed market by using the market's ID.

## Abstract

The `getMarketAddress` function is designed to return the address of the deployed market, given a market ID as input. This function would simplify the process of retrieving information about a market directly from the market contract.

## Motivation

Currently, the only method available to find a deployed market's address is to check the market creation event. This approach poses a problem as it makes direct interaction with the market contract challenging without using services like a subgraph.

By providing a `getMarketAddress` function, we make the protocol more accessible and user-friendly, allowing users to easily interact with market contracts and retrieve information.

## Specification

### Overview

This feature's addition will involve the `MarketManagerModule`, which will need a new `getMarketAddress` function to return the address of a market given its ID.

### Rationale

The proposed function will allow easier access to information regarding the Synthetix markets, improving the overall user experience and creating more interaction opportunities with the protocol.

### Technical Specification
The `getMarketAddress` function could be implemented as follows:

```solidity
function getMarketAddress(uint128 marketId) external view override returns (address) {
    return Market.load(marketId).marketAddress;
}
```
 
## Test Case
N/A

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)
N/A

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
