---
sip: 383
title: Multi-Collateral Margin Support - Perps V3
network: Base
status: Vote_Pending
type: Governance
author: 'Sunny Vempati (@sunnyvempati), kaleb (@kaleb-keny), Leo (@leomassazza)'
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x645d552aa4e7439fdf4cb3bd16a9b206f54c57dc1d459cf28564ea1bc8930e0c
created: 2024-04-28
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This sip introduces multi-collaterals to Perps V3. Various collateral types, such as snxETH and snxBTC, could be used as margin by either wrapping them with the designated underlying or by purchasing directly from the spot market.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

This proposal introduces multi-collateral margining. This functionality enables the inclusion of new collaterals type that back perpetual positions. Governance retains control over the types of accepted collateral and can specify parameters such as haircut calibration and maximum exposure within a given market segment


## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

This enhancement focuses on improving user experience by enabling  posting of collaterals of different types to support positions. Additionally, this new functionality facilitates the opening of delta-neutral positions, a sought-after feature particularly useful for farming funding rates.

## Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

An important design consideration in this sip was the handling of liquidated collateral: whether to distribute it directly to LPs or utilize the spot market to swap collateral for snxUSD and settle LPs' debts. To bolster the resilience of the perp market amidst spot market implementation, which entails price impact for skew rebalancing,  direct collateral distribution to LPs was favored over the fire-sale option.


## Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

### CollateralConfigurationModule


```solidity
    function setCollateralConfiguration(
        uint128 collateralId,
        uint256 maxCollateralAmount,
        uint256 upperLimitDiscount,
        uint256 lowerLimitDiscount,
        uint256 discountScalar
    ) external;
```

This function enables governance to specify the following parameters for eligible collaterals:

- `collateralId`: Identifies the collateral, with 0 representing snxUSD and 1 representing snxETH, for example.
- `maxCollateralAmount`: Specifies the maximum amount of the collateral's native currency that can be used as margin within a perp supermarket.
- `upperLimitDiscount`: Sets the upper limit of the discount applied on the margin, in order to compute available margin.
- `lowerLimitDiscount`: Sets the lower limit of the discount on the margin applied on the margin, in order to compute available margin.
- `discountScalar`: A configurable parameter used to calculate the discount on the margin. The expression for the calculation of the discount is as follows:

` unboundedDiscountRate = (marginSize * discountScalar) / skewScale `

` discountRate = min(max(unboundedDiscountRate;lowerLimitDiscount);upperLimitDiscount)`

Hence, `availableMargin` would calculate the the US Dollar value of a given collateral by multiplying the size of the posted margin, by the price obtained directly from pyth, with the relevant staleness tolerance (STRICT for liquidation), with the later multiplied by `(1-discountRate)`.

### RewardDistributor

Distributing margin to the different liquidity providers that hook onto the perp market would be done with the help of the v3 RewardDistributor which is outlined in [SIP-305](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-305/). Note that [SIP-369](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-369/) allows for the configuration of an unlimited number of collaterals as margin on a perp market.

### LiquidationModule

```solidity
    function liquidateMarginOnly(uint128 accountId) external returns (uint256 liquidationReward);
```

With the introduction of volatile collateral as margin, scenarios may arise necessitating the liquidation of accounts with no open positions. This could occur if an account accumulates debt from realized losses on closed positions or from outstanding accrued funding. When the post-discount value of collateral falls below the outstanding debt due to price fluctuations, liquidators can trigger the `liquidateMarginOnly` function. This function distributes both the debt and margin to LPs, while compensating the liquidator with gas fees and a proportionate compensation based on the liquidated collateral's size.
Moreover, under this proposal, the `flagReward` is determined as the maximum between the reward calculated based on the size of outstanding positions and the reward calculated base on the total size of the margin in US Dollar value. This reward is subject to a cap `maximumKeeperRewardCap` and a floor `minimumKeeperRewardCap`.

The logic behind liquidations  remains the same, an account is subject to liquidation in case his available margin does not satisfy the minimum margin requirements. The margin being the discounted value of all the margins posted as collateral after removing or adding any outstanding debt and accrued interest. The required margin is based on the same maintenance margin calculation specified in [SIP-337](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-337/). 


### PerpsAccountModule

```solidity
    function payDebt(uint128 accountId, uint256 amount) external;
```

In case a user has snxETH margin and intended to withdraw it, he would need to repay his outstanding debt. This wasn't an issue before introducing multi-collateral synths, since the margin would be used for settling outstanding debt. However, incorporating  multi-margin requires that users settle their USD denominated debt before hand. Hence, this helper function allows a user to repay his debt and integrators would be able to facilitate this by performing the following:
1) Flash USDC
2) Wrap USDC to mint snxUSD
3) Repay Debt
4) Withdraw snxETH Margin
5) Unwrap snxETH margin to get wETH
6) Swap wETH to USDC on the most liquid venue
7) Repay the flash loan

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

N/A

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
