---
sip: 229
title: Optimism Bridge for Synths
network:  Ethereum & Optimism 
status: Approved
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/QmQnro52vRMSKmayn7Tfi4bG3eRd3L134GZi7Dt4d4cfbm
type: Governance
author: Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth)
created: 2022/04/04
---

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Enable the transfer of synths for deposit and withdrawal through Optimism Bridge. Initially, only sUSD will be enabled for transfer.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "We propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

Now that SIP-165 has been completed, sUSD is fungible on L1 and L2. Due to no bridges being set up, however, it is still not possible to send
sUSD between layers.

Therefore, in a way similar to how we currently deposit or withdraw SNX from L2, synths will be transferrable using the optimism bridge. A user will be able to call
a public function on `SynthetixBridgeToOptimism` or `SynthetixBridgeToBase` to initiate a transfer to the other layer by burning synths, and after the grace period elapses, the funds will be minted
on the other side.

## Motivation

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs? The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

The spartan council has decided not to support SIP-204 for bridging synths between networks. Therefore, to recoup some of the benefit of SIP-165,
we must support some method for synth transfer between layers.

This will also lead to easier migration of debt from L1 to L2, forced or not.

### Technical Specification

#### Bridge

New methods `initializeSynthTransfer(bytes32 currencyKey, address destination, uint amount)` and `finalizeSynthTransfer(bytes32 currencyKey, address destination, uint amount)` will be added to `BaseSynthetixBridge`. Upon call to `initializeSynthTransfer`, the specified synth will be burnt from the user, and
a cross-chain message sent to the destination chain counterpart to call `finalizeSynthTransfer`. When `finalizeSynthTransfer` is called, the usual checks are done to verify the
message origin, and then the appropriate synths are minted for the user.

In order to allow chainlink to track debt which is in transit between chains, the running mapped tallies, `synthTransferSent` and `synthTransferReceived` will be recorded. By comparing the difference between these values on opposite chains, it is possible to see how much synth is in transit.

The actual mint and burn will be done through `Issuer` to reduce
the upgrade complexity.

#### Optimism

The `optimism.github.io` repository will need to be updated to include the `sUSD` synth information and contract address so that its information appears on Optimism Gateway. If any other synths are approved by the council in the future, they will need to be added using the same process.

#### Chainlink

Chainlink will need to track 2 new sources per chain for the issued synths and debt ratio oracle, the synths in transit.

In pseudocode, the new equation for the `issued synths` value within the debt oracles is:

```
sum(DebtCache.currentDebt() + SynthetixBridge.synthTransferSent() - SynthetixBridge.synthTransferReceived()) for all chains
```

Note that the contract calls should be atomic or locked to a specific block on-chain.

Also note, on Optimism, the `SynthetixBridge` contract is called `SynthetixBridgeToBase`. On mainnet, the contract is called `SynthetixBridgeToOptimism`. The appropriate contract should be queried for its address from the `AddressResolver` as we are doing with existing addresses.

Chainlink will be responsible for implementing the code for this additional requirement.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

`crossChainSynthTransferEnabled(bytes32 currencyKey)`: specifies whether or not synth is allowed to be initiated for transfer to other layer. 0 = disabled, all other values = enabled

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
