---
sip: 228
title: Commodity Synths on Optimism
network:  Optimism 
status: Vote_Pending
type: Governance
author: Kaleb (@kaleb-keny)
created: 2022/04/06
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/QmZdLTkxK3oyE6gTjHveBSctbsdUQZD7tR2qM4X3PDTuRK
---

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This sips aims at negating the voting outcome of [SIP-212](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-212/).

## Motivation

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs? The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

[SIP-212](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-212/) originally proposed to list Silver and Gold as spot Synths and for shorting. However, the product-asset fit makes more sense in having these commodities listed as futures markets ([SIP-217](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-217/)). Below are the major reasons:
- Synth and shorts are strictly worse than futures in utilization of sUSD liquidity, given the ability of traders to take on leveraged positions with the same amount of synth liquidity.
- There isn't any interest rate embedded into silver/gold spot synths. While buying exposure to such derivatives in the traditional finance world incorporates a cost of carry and convenience yield. Furthermore, the need to calibrate interest rates via governance for shorts is not ideal, given day-to-day market volatility.
- The user base procuring spot XAU and XAG synths would do so with the intention of holding them to gain exposure to that asset class. This is not optimal due to the difficulty of generating large synth volume without leveraging the debt pool with wrapprs.
- The short synths cannot be paused, unless the until entire market is paused. Therefore, during periods where the oracle feed is not updated, users would be able to short synths at outdated prices.
- There are not open-interest caps with spot synths and therefore, the exposure on the debt pool is unlimited and the risk therefore amplified.
-  SNX stakers would be much better off underwriting the commodotiy exposure when it comes from futures, due to the funding rates updates that encourage balancing of the skew.


### Technical Specification

NA

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

NA


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
