---
sip: 264
title: Update Atomic Pricing & Circuit Breakers
network: Ethereum
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: kaleb (@kaleb-keny), Afif (@aband1)
implementor: TBD
created: 2022-07-28
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes improvements to the atomic pricing methodology as well as updates to the circuit breaker functionality:
 - Incorporate the in-block spot price into the atomic pricing (i.e. the live price)
 - Incorporate a new circuit breaker that uses the delta between the uniswap live price and uniswap twap price
 - Deprecate the existing volatility circuit breaker
 
## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

- Update the [atomic price methodology](https://github.com/Synthetixio/SIPs/blob/master/content/sips/sip-258.md#computation-methodology-in-atomic-pricing-updated) as to incorporate the in-block live price into the computation of atomic price (specified in the specification below).
- Incorporate a new circuit breaker that uses the absolute delta between the uniswap live price and uniswap twap price

## Motivation
<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

- Usage of live price:
The current implementation of atomic swaps uses the spot price at the previous block. This exposes the debt pool to latency attacks, as the spot price at the previous block does not incorporate the latest updated information. Hence using the live spot helps reduce the latency considerably as shown in the [scatter plot](https://ibb.co/sq4Sw3c). The scatter plot shows the delta between centralized exchange prices and uniswap prices when considering same block price (orange) versus previous block pricing (blue).
It is important to mention that the updated computation would use the worse between live price, price at the previous block, twap and chainlink.
Latency arbitrageurs can still push their transactions at the head of the block via flashbots or high gas prices, as to front-run a uniswap pool arbitrage and updated oracle pricing. The protocol would need to lean against this by increasing fees and incorporating slippage (v3).

- Update of circuit breaker methodology:
The current circuit breaker methodology is difficult to calibrate and is highly dependend on changes in update frequencies of chainlink. It does not allow for fine tuning against excess volatility given that the number of price pushes is an integer and is a lagging indicator due to the need for chainlink to push a price for the circuit breaker to be activated. Furthermore, it fails to incorporate price stability in a prompt manner leading to prolonged periods of disabled trading. The [plot](https://ibb.co/hdNv5vF) here showcases the number of pushes per time horizon and given the distribution of points along the line it's hard to calibrate the right amount of circuit breaks that would protect stakers from extreme volatility swings.
The new methodology entails measuring the absolute delta between the live in-block price and a twap price and comparing that to a max delta specified via sccp. This permits the SC to specify a certain number of bp diviation between spot and twap that triggers a circuit breaker, allowing for finer fine-tuning and a more elegant resumption of trading. This [chart](https://ibb.co/WVryY6k) shows the delta between uniswap spot and centralized exchange prices as a function of the absolute delta between uniswap-spot and 5 min twap. It clearly shows that setting the `minDelta` to 100 bp helps lean against extreme volatility and distances between on-chain and off-chain prices.
Note that in case pure chainlink price is used on a specific synth, then no volatility circuit breaker check would performed on the respective synth. 

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->


### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

#### Update to the atomic price methodology

##### Computation Methodology in Atomic Pricing Updated

Atomic exchanges leads to combinations that involve the usage of chainlink in certain situations and the usage of uniswap in others or a combination of the two sources of prices. This sip updates the computation laid out in [SIP-258](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-258/), incorporating a `UniLive` price which is the in-block price from uniswap. 

1. PureChainlink Vs Not Pure Chainlink:

- When a pure chainlink price is assigned to a currency, the chainlink price is used.
- Otherwise the **worse** price between chainlink and uniswap-spot and uniswap-twap is used in the combination. Worse price, means the price that would result in the lowest `DEST_Amount`.

2. Naming Convention:

- `UniLive(SRC/USD)` and `UniLive(DEST/USD)` refers to the price obtained from uniswap V3 spot in the current block, reflecting arbitrages on uniswap pool that had taken place within the same block. Few implementation details:

    a) As implemented in [SIP-120](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-120/), in case the 5 bp pool is specified, the implementation should determine the price of the `synthEquivalent/wETH` price by hoping over the `wETH/synthEquivalent` & `wETH/USDC` uniswap pools in case no native `synthEquivalent/USDC` exists. Therefore the implementation will need to hop over the  [wETH/USDC](https://etherscan.io/address/0x88e6A0c2dDD26FEEb64F039a2c41296FcB3f5640) and [wBTC/wETH](https://etherscan.io/address/0x4585FE77225b41b697C938B018E2Ac67Ac5a20c0) pools in order to arrive at the price of wBTC on the 5 bp pool.

    b) In order to arrive at the live uniswap price [quoteExactInput](https://docs.uniswap.org/protocol/reference/periphery/interfaces/IQuoterV2#quoteexactinput) function could be utilized on chain, despite these function not being gas efficient. The live price is considered to be the price to convert an equivalent amount of 1 ETH worth of the `inputCurrencyKey` being swapped into the `outputCurrencyKey`, hence directionality is used when obtaining the uniswap live price.

- `UniSpot(SRC/USD)` and `UniSpot(DEST/USD)` refers to the price obtained from uniswap V3 spot in the previous block.
- `UniTwap(SRC/USD)` and `UniTwap(DEST/USD)` refers to the price obtained from uniswap V3 twap.
- `Chainlink(SRC/USD)` and `Chainlink(DEST/USD)` refers to the price obtained from chainlink price feed

3. Below are the different scenarios that could arise for trading currencies that have or don't have the Pure Chainlink tag:

- `SRC` and `DEST` are both set to trade at the PureChainlinkPrice, in such a case, both `Chainlink(SRC/USD)` and `Chainlink(DEST/USD)` are used to compute `SRC/DEST` by dividing `Chainlink(SRC/USD)` by `Chainlink(DEST/USD)`.
- `SRC` is **NOT** set to PureChainlinkPrice and `DEST` is set to PureChainlinkPrice. Therefore, `SRC/DEST` is obtained by dividing min(`UniSpot(SRC/USD)`,`UniLive(SRC/USD)`,`UniTwap(SRC/USD)`,`Chainlink(SRC/USD)`) by `Chainlink(DEST/USD)`.
- `SRC` is set to PureChainlinkPrice and `DEST` is **NOT** set to PureChainlinkPrice. Therefore, `SRC/DEST` is obtained by dividing `Chainlink(SRC/USD)` by max(`Chainlink(DEST/USD)`,`UniLive(DEST/USD)`,`UniSpot(DEST/USD)`,`UniTwap(DEST/USD)`).
- Both `SRC` and `DEST` are **NOT** set to PureChainlinkPrice, in such a case, `SRC/DEST` is obtained by dividing min(`UniSpot(SRC/USD)`,`UniLive(SRC/USD)`,`UniTwap(SRC/USD)`,`Chainlink(SRC/USD)`) by max(`Chainlink(DEST/USD)`,`UniLive(DEST/USD)`,`UniSpot(DEST/USD)`,`UniTwap(DEST/USD)`).

#### Update circuit breaker methodology

The user would specify a `atomicVolatilityTwapSeconds` and `atomicMaxTwapDelta` for each `atomicEquivalent` (i.e. specific for each synth). Upon trade, a check is done on both the source and destination currencies individually to ensure that the `delta`, computed by `abs(UniLive/UniTwap-1)` is below `maxDelta`. In case, `delta` exceeds `atomicMaxTwapDelta` on the source or destination currencies then the transaction reverts. It is worth mentioning that for the case of `PureChainlink` pricing no volatility breaker check is performed on the synth.
For example executing a trade from `sEUR` to `sBTC`, a volatility breaker check is still done on the `sBTC` side of the trade and the entire trade reverts if delta exceeds `atomicMaxTwapDelta`.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

The same configurable values as those set out in [SIP-120](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-120/),  [SIP-198](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-198/) and [SIP-258](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-258/).
Additional configuration include:
- `atomicVolatilityTwapSeconds` configurable per `atomicEquivalent` (i.e. per synth that doesn't trade at pure chainlink price)
- `atomicMaxTwapDelta` configurable per `atomicEquivalent` (i.e. per synth that doesn't trade at pure chainlink price)

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
