---
sip: 238
title: Only allow token interactions via their proxies
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Alejandro Santander (@the_ethernaut)
implementor: TBC
discussions-to: Discord
created: 2022-05-13
---

## Simple Summary

This SIP introduces minimal modifications to the system that will only allow users to interact with SNX, as well as synths, via their proxies, and stop allowing interactions via their implementations.

## Abstract

Since our proxies use `call` instead of `delegatecall`, the state of our tokens such as the balances mapping does not reside in the proxies, but in contracts specifically designed to hold token states. Whenever a token is upgraded, the previous implementation is discarded, and a new one is connected to the proxy, as well as the token state contract. This results in the fact that two different token addresses represent the same token. We always recommend people to use the proxy address, which never changes, but nothing stops users from interacting with the active implementation. Doing so is identicall to interacting via the proxy.

## Motivation

The ability to interact with our tokens via two different entry points can cause accounting issues in smart contracts that are designed to track state for tokens via a single entry point. By restricting interaction to the proxy only, we mitigate such possible accounting issues in all protocols that use Synthetix tokens.

## Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

### Existing modifiers

The `optionalProxy` modifier allows interaction from any address, but if the interaction comes from the proxy it simply switches `messageSender` to be the user instead of the proxy.

The `onlyProxy` modifier is more intuitive, and merely requires that the interaction is coming from the proxy. In such case, `messageSender` will already be set to `msg.sender`.

The `onlyInternalContracts` modifier is usually used when one component of the system is calling another component. On the recipients of such interactions, this modifier is used to verify that the interaction comes from a validated component of the system.

### BaseSynthetix.sol

The `transfer` and `transferFrom` functions need to be modified to use the `onlyProxy` modifier instead of the `optionalProxy` modifier.

### ExternTokenState.sol

The `approve` function also needs to be modified to use the `onlyProxy` modifier instead of the `optionalProxy` modifier.

The `transfer` and `transferFrom` functions need to be modified to use the `onlyProxy` modifier instead of the `optionalProxy` modifier.

### Synth.sol

The `transfer`, `transferFrom`, `transferAndSettle`, `transferFromAndSettle` functions need to be modified to use the `onlyProxy` modifier instead of the `optionalProxy` modifier.

The `onlyInternalContracts` modifier needs to also allow interactions coming from the proxy, granted that `messageSender` is an internal contract.

### AddressResolver.sol

The deploy script needs to be modified to guarantee that the proxy address is used for any system component that is behind a proxy. This is because certain components of the system will be calling the above mentioned functions that will only accept interactions via the proxy.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
