---
sip: 262
title: Create Perps Markets for XMR DOGE ETC
network:  Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Burt Rock(@BurtRock)
created: 2022/07/19
---

## Simple Summary

Create a XMR-PERP, DOGE-PERP and ETC-PERP markets on Optimism.

## Abstract

This is a proposal to offer XMR-PERP, DOGE-PERP, and ETC-PERP futures which track the price of the $XMR, $ETC, and $DOGE cryptocurrency.

## Motivation

$XMR $DOGE and $ETC are all well established cryptocurrencies with the deepest liquidity among assets in their particualar niche, and will add a varied selection of unique offerings for Synthetic Futures traders. $XMR is the most established privacy coin, $DOGE is the most established meme coin, and $ETC will likely be the most popular PoW network supporting smart contracts after the $ETH merge.

### Rationale

$XMR has a strong and loyal community that shares the decentralized and permissionless ethos of Synthetix and ecosystem partners. Despite its popularity, $XMR is also unavailable for trading in many jurisdictions, and many traders are unlikely to have an alternative venue. Because of these factors, Monero is likely to have a large base of holders who cannot, or do not wish to trade their spot positions. If Synthetix began offering $XMR futures, it would be the only decentralized offering of its kind, and could be valuable to $XMR holders with no alternative for hedging. Aside from its practicality, this would create a marketing opportunity for the Synthetix ecosystem to highlight its ethos and unique value proposition to outside communities.

$DOGE is currently unavailable through competitors such as Perpetual Protocol and GMX, and its inclusion into Synthetix and Kwenta’s offerings would help display the breadth of possible assets. Additionally, there is interest in the Kwenta community for this listing, as demonstrated by $DOGE having multiple direct requests from the community and placing in the top 3 in a recent community poll.

$ETC is avalable on several popular centralized exchanges including Robinhood, is popular with traders, and could potentially see an increase in popularity due to the $ETH transition to PoW. $ETC is also an asset which has been requested by members of the Kwenta and Synthetix communities and could provide a marketing opportunity if $ETC becomes a popular topic of public conversations.

### Technical Specification

Implementation requires requesting price feeds from Chainlink, and should be dependent on Chainlink adding price feeds for XMR, DOGE, and ETC within an expiry window of 21 days from the passage of this proposal. 

If a price feed does not exist within the expiry window of 21 days, implementation should be halted unless council extends the expiry window via SCCP. 

### Test Cases

n/a

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

Open interest caps, fee tier, and expiry window.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
