---
sip: 2019
title: Stop Curve 10,000 SNX inflation rewards
network: Ethereum
status: Implemented
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x839eed775c43bed46e47fc87df23fdf36603f2b42a1630cb0a97cfcf38d2e320
type: Governance
author: Artsychoke
created: 2023-05-11
---

## Simple Summary
Stop the weekly distribution of 10,000 SNX tokens to Curve LPs and instead distribute them directly to SNX stakers. 

## Abstract
The Synthetix DAO currently distributes 10,000 SNX tokens per week from inflation to Curve LPs. However, this distribution of SNX tokens doesn't have a real impact on liquidity and would be better utilized by distributing them directly to SNX stakers. Additionally, with atomic swaps not being the main driver of volume for the protocol, directly incentivising curve pools should not be a priority. 

## Motivation
The current distribution of 10,000 SNX tokens per week to Curve liquidity providers has been ongoing for some time, but it doesn't seem to have a significant impact on liquidity anymore. This distribution system may not be an efficient use of the tokens, and the tokens could be put to better use by directly incentivizing SNX stakers. By incentivizing SNX stakers, the proposal aims to increase the number of SNX tokens held for more extended periods, thereby reducing selling pressure and increasing incentive alignment.

## Specification
The proposal suggests that the Synthetix DAO stops the weekly distribution of 10,000 SNX. Currently, 10,000 SNX of the minted weekly supply go to a TC controlled address for the distribution. After the implementation of this proposal, the 10,000 SNX would be distributed directly to stakers via inflation rewards. 

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
