---
sip: 369
title: List DEGEN-PERP on Perps v3 on Base
network: Base
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: SynthaMan (@SNXified)
created: 2024-03-25
---

## Simple Summary

List DEGEN-PERP on Perps v3 on the Base network.

## Abstract

List a DEGEN-PERP market on the Perps v3 on the Base network, allowing traders to go long and short on the main MEME token of the Base network. This listing offers traders the ability to speculate on the future value of DEGEN without directly holding the token, thereby providing a hedging tool for DEGEN holders and adding depth to the trading environment on Base.

## Motivation

The motivation behind listing DEGEN-PERP on Perps v3 is multi-faceted, targeting both strategic expansion and community engagement. DEGEN, as the main MEME token on the Base network, has shown significant interest and activity. By listing DEGEN-PERP, we aim to leverage this momentum, offering new trading strategies for DEGEN enthusiasts and broadening the appeal of Perps v3. This move is also anticipated to stimulate further growth and activity within the Base network, encouraging both existing and new users to engage with the DeFi ecosystem more deeply.

Furthermore, the listing seeks to provide DEGEN holders with a valuable tool for risk management, enabling them to hedge their exposure to DEGEN's price volatility without needing to liquidate their positions. This addition enriches the Perps v3 market, making it more attractive to a diverse range of traders and investors interested in the meme token space.

## Specification

### Rationale

With the continued growth and innovation in the Base network's DeFi offerings, adding a DEGEN-PERP market on Perps v3 represents a natural extension of the platform's capabilities. DEGEN's position as the main MEME token of the Base network, coupled with its active trading community, makes it an ideal candidate for perp trading. This listing will enhance the liquidity and trading dynamics on Perps v3, contributing to a more vibrant and robust trading environment.

### Technical Specification

- Requires a Pyth oracle on Base for each market.

### Test Cases

- n/a

### Configurable Values

- To be set via SCCP for the DEGEN market.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived.
