---
sip: 283
title: Remove the nominations period as a distinct part of the election process
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Meta-Governance
author: TerraBellus (@terrabellus)
discussions-to: Discord
created: 2022-10-10
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary)

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP seeks to deactivate a distinct nominations period within the V3GM Election Module. The motivation behind this is that nominations are now possible while voting is ongoing, removing the necessity for a separate period. The change is also intended to increase the efficiency of the election process.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

The recent passing of [SIP-278: Enable nominations during voting period](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-278/) has made a distinct nominations period within the council election process unnecessary. To quote SIP-278, “while nomination and voting periods were initially created as separate periods due to a concern the electioning[sic] could be negatively impacted by spamming through creation of additional nominees, this no longer presents as a major concern given such impediments as the gas fee paid for nominating.” In light of the change, the continued presence of a nominations period adds to the time it takes to stage an election with little in the way of return. As the variables within the V3GM allow for its deactivation with little-to-no developer overhead and the scheduling of the non-codified aspects of elections (community announcements, nominee round tables, etc.) can be adjusted to compensate for a reduced election length, with this SIP an election process with a disproportionate time cost can be rendered more efficient.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

The necessity of staging a distinct nominations period can be deactivated within the V3GM by altering the `minNominationPeriodDuration` variable from “2 days” to “0 days.” This will then allow `nominationPeriodStartDate` and `votingPeriodStartDate` to be set to the same point prior to the `epochEndDate` without the need to make any additional changes to the code.

## Rationale

At present, the council election process takes in excess of three weeks to carry out when including preparatory work. At almost one quarter of the entire epoch length, this creates a excessively large drain on the attention of incumbent councillors, Core Contributors and the Synthetix community at large. Removal of the nominations period will allow an election cycle to be comfortably carried out within a period of two weeks, granting all parties the ability to more effectively concentrate their efforts on either developing the protocol when an election is not being held or campaigning for council seats when one is.

## Test Cases

When an election is called, the nomination and voting periods will be synchronised to start at the same time. Accounts will then be able to nominate themselves while voting is conducted, with the epoch’s end date set for two weeks later.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
