---
sip: 303
title: Markets (V3)
network: Ethereum & Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: 'Afif Bandak (@aband1), Kain Warwick <@kaiynne>, Noah Litvin (@noahlitvin)'
implementor: 'Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth), Leonardo Massazza (@leomassazza), Alejandro Santander (@ajsantander)'
created: 2022-05-03
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

This SIP proposes the creation of markets in Version 3 of the Synthetix protocol. Markets are expected to accept sUSD, generate positions, and rely on liquidity provided by funds to back any debt inflation generated by their positions.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

Markets are a generic abstraction that allow products (such as spot markets and futures markets) to be built on the protocol. Market contracts interact with the market manager to mint sUSD, burn sUSD, and interact with funds for liquidity. Markets can be designed and deployed by anyone.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

By creating a generic market interface, we are able to cleanly separate concerns in the codebase and allow for greater composability with the protocol. Though we anticipate starting with implementations of futures and spot market contracts, it should be possible to design new types of markets for the protocol as well.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

Markets interact with the market manager to read the amount of liquidity available to them and report the balance (debt or credit) they’ve generated. The market manager tracks the share of the balance apportioned to each of the funds that are providing liquidity to a given market.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

By facilitating all of logic pertaining to minting and burning sUSD within the market manager, we’re able to allow the permissionless creation of markets in the protocol. The intention of this design is ensure that only the funds which back a given market are exposed to risk generated from this market, while keeping sUSD fungible and shielded from this risk.

In the worse case scenario, a malicious actor could generate a market, persuade funds to provide it with liquidity, and then set the `balance` value to a large negative number (suggesting large debt inflation). This would subject the funds involved to liquidation, but no other risk should be assumed by the protocol.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

The market manager will implement the following interface: 

```
interface IMarketManager {
	function registerMarket(address market) returns uint;
	function setSupplyTarget(uint marketId, uint fundId, uint amount);
	function supplyTarget(uint marketId) returns (uint);
	function setLiquidity(uint marketId, uint fundId, uint amount);
	function liquidity(uint marketId) returns (uint);
	function fundBalance(uint marketId, uint fundId) returns (int);
	function totalFundBalance(uint marketId) returns (int);
	function deposit(uint marketId, uint amount) public;
	function withdraw(uint marketId, uint amount, address recipient) public;
}
```
Markets can be registered with the market manager using the `registerMarket()` function. This validates the presence of a `balance()` function in the specified contract and stores the address in a mapping (with an incrementing `uint` as the key). This function may also emit an event (for improved protocol analytics) or include various restrictions around market creation.

Each fund calls `setSupplyTarget()` and `setLiquidity()` in its `rebalanceMarkets()` function. This updates the `supplyTarget()` and `liquidity()` values for a market, which are the sum of each of these values being provided by each fund. 

Each fund is responsible for a balance based on their proportional share of the supply target for a market. This is related to the market’s `balance()` and can be read from the `fundBalance()` function.

Markets can call `deposit()` to transfer sUSD into the system with the appropriate accounting. This would be used when someone provides sUSD to a market to purchase sBTC, for example. This function requires that `msg.sender` is associated with the specified `marketId`.

Markets can also call `withdraw()` to mint sUSD to the specified recipient. This will revert if the total amount of sUSD minted by this contract were to exceed the total liquidity provided to it. This function requires that `msg.sender` is associated with the specified `marketId`.

The only function that a market must implement is `balance()`.

```
interface IMarket {
	function balance() view returns int;
}
```

A market must call `registerMarket()` on the market manager contract before interacting with it. Typically, the market would call it in its constructor method and store the returned id.

As an example, a basic synth spot market for sBTC could be implemented as follows:

- An ERC-20 contract would be deployed, with a mint and burn function only callable by the market contract and a `symbol()` function that returns `sBTC`.
- The sBTC market contract would be deployed with the following functionality:
    - `balance()`
        - Returns the total supply of the sBTC token multiplied by the current price of BTC, as a negative value.
    - `mint(uint amount)`
        - Transfers the specified amount of sUSD from the caller to market manager with the `deposit()` function.
        - Determines the exchange rate based on a price oracle and applies any fees.
        - Mints the appropriate amount of sBTC to `msg.sender`.
    - `burn(uint amount)`
        - Burns the specified amount of sBTC from `msg.sender`.
        - Determines the exchange rate based on a price oracle and applies any fees.
        - Mints the appropriate amount of sUSD with  the `withdraw()` function and sends it to `msg.sender`.

Note that if fees are simply deducted during exchange, they are effectively distributed among funds pro-rata based on the amount of liquidity they’re providing. This would be similar to stakers having their sUSD fees instantaneously burned in the current version of the protocol. Stakers could simply mint sUSD to retrieve them.

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

Relevant tests will be developed during implementation.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

- Approved Markets (*address[]*) - This is a list of market contract addresses owned (or otherwise approved) by the Spartan Council and will be listed in the official UI.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
