---
sip: 230
title: Universal Circuit Breaker
network:  Ethereum & Optimism 
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Daniel Beal (@dbeal-eth)
created: 2022/04/07
---

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Create a new contract dedicated to providing a base-level of validation for any values provided by the chainlink oracle.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "We propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

Implementation of SIP-165, and to some extent, futures, have revealed that we need a more self-contained, generic system for chainlink oracle validation is required. To solve this problem,
a new circuit breaker contract which all queries to chainlink aggregators must run through is created.

For testing purposes, this class can be used to reduce the provisioning complexity of the system in general by being able to set override prices from the
circuit breaker system itself.

## Motivation

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs? The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

This is a technical debt item which will improve the maintainability and security of the protocol

### Technical Specification

#### `OracleManager`

This is a new contract added to the system which will replace `ExchangeCircuitBreaker`, portions of `ExchangeRates` where aggregators are stored,
and any other circuit breaker functionality which previously existed will be removed and replaced with a call to this contract.

This contract will include the following external methods:

* `addAggregator(bytes32 id, address target)`: register chainlink compatible oracle from the given target, referenced with the given `id`. Similar to existing `ExchangeRates.addAggregator`
* `removeAggregator(bytes32 id, address target)`: opposite of `addAggregator`
* `reset(bytes32 id, uint value)`: If a circuit breaker was triggered, disarm it and initialize it to the given value for last known
* `getCurrentRound(bytes32 id)`: Returns the current round ID reported by the oracle
* `getValue(bytes32 id, uint round) returns (uint value)`: Retrieve a value from the oracle referenced by `id`. Before returning, the value will be passed through a circuit breaker function (defined below). If the value is/has tripped the breaker, or is out of date, the function will fail internally
* `failureTimestamp(bytes32 id)`: used to get the time at which a breaker was tripped or when the last update was (if the value is stale)
* `getValues(bytes32 id, uint roundStart, uint roundEnd) returns (uint[] values, uint broken)`: Same as `getValue,` but retrieves a range of values between `roundStart` and `roundEnd`
* `setValue(bytes32 id, uint value)`: Allows owner to manually set an aggregator price to a static value. Useful for test overrides or defined prices like `sUSD`. Not compatible with an aggregator previously added using `addAggregator`.

#### Circuit Breaker Functionality

Our goal with this system is to prevent large, impossible swings in chainlink price from causing widespread damage to the system, while still not triggering
unnecessarily when buisness is as usual.

To accomplish this, a simple threshold comparison function is proposed

#### Migration

It will be necessary to migrate the aggregators from the current `ExchangeRates` contract to the new `OracleManager`. Some portions of the deployment
process will need to be updated to add aggregators to the new manager as well.

Aggregators for `DebtRatio` and `IssuedSynths` will need to be updated to be provisioned to the new `OracleManager` as well

#### Simplified Example Workflows

##### `Exchanger.exchange`

* `Exchanger.exchange`
  * `ExchangeRates.effectiveValueAndRatesAtRound`
    * `OracleManager.getValues` -- get range of rates for advanced exchange rate calculations
  * `ExchangeRates.effectiveValueAndRatesAtRound`
    * `OracleManager.getValues`

Basically, every call that used to just be against the raw aggregator is now

`ExchangeRatesWithFeeRecAlternatives` and `ExchangeRatesWithDexPricing` will be updated the same way.

##### `Issuer.issueMaxSynths`

* `Issuer.issueMaxSynths`
  * `Issuer._debtBalanceOfAndTotalDebt`
    * `Issuer.allNetworksDebtInfo`
      * `OracleManager.getValue` -- get issued synths oracle
      * `OracleManager.getValue` -- get issued synth
    * `ExchangeRates.rateAndInvalid` -- SNX price request
      * `OracleManager.getValue` -- get SNX price
  * ...

Similar for Issuer. By doing this, we can mostly remove code for circuit breaking from `Issuer` and take appropropriate actions to protect from oracle accidents by default.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

* `breakerThreshold(bytes32 id)`: defined the factor of change required for the breaker to trip for a given aggregator. If unset, this defaults to `2`
* `breakerTimeout(uint time)`: number of seconds between calls to `getValue` at which point the breaker will be disabled (i.e. to prevent large gaps in time from trigerring the breaker). Set to 1 to completely disable the breaker. Default value is 86400 seconds--1 day.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
