---
sip: 2021
title: Adding steth/usd and wsteth/usd to Synthetix Perps 
network:  Optimism
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Matt, Justin (Lido), Westie, Gunboats, Kevin, Mastermojo.
---

## Simple Summary

Create Synthetix Perps markets for steth/usd and wsteth/usd on Synthetix Perps

## Abstract

This is a proposal to offer steth/usd and wsteth/usd futures which track the price of their respective cryptocurrencies.

## Motivation

This proposal is a crucial step in ensuring that traders continue to have access to a large number of markets on Synthetix Perps. Many community members, partners, and others have requested an increase in the number of supported markets.

The proposed markets have been directly requested by Lido Finance contributors.

## Rationale

Synthetix Perps is expanding its support for a wide range of assets, and these new assets allow Synthetix to expand into untapped markets to onboard more traders. Both of these assets are highly used across DeFi and open up new use cases for perps traders.

## Specification

Data was obtained on May 9th via Coingecko from the following exchanges: Curve, Balancer, Beethoven, and Uniswap

| Coin Name 	|  24 Hour Volume  |
|-----------	|----------------	|
| steth       	| $20,351,675.00 	|
| wsteth       	| $17,810,601.32 	|


This 24-hour volume shows that there is ample volume traded, which points to an appetite for traders. Subsequent data will be shown in SCCPs as reasoning for particular configurable values.

When setting subsequent parameters, it's important to note that steth and wsteth do not have any CEX/DEX perpetual futures markets. This may not be much of a helpful consideration for steth, as it tracks the eth price; however, it may be important for wsteth, which accrues staking rewards in its value.

Upon approval, markets will be paused, and SCCPs must be created to unpause the market and set configurable variables after feeds have been properly tested.

## Technical Specification

Implementation requires implementing off-chain oracle price feeds from Pyth Network and backup on-chain oracles from Chainlink.

Configurable values (read below) will be set in a subsequent SCCP for each market or bundled into one SCCP unpausing all markets.

## Test Cases

n/a

## Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

All Perps V2 configurable values will be set in subsequent SCCPS for each market.

    "makerFee": "",
    "takerFee": "",
    "takerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeDelayedOrder": "",
    "takerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "makerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "",
    "maxLeverage": "",
    "maxMarketValue": "",
    "maxFundingVelocity": "",
    "skewScale": "",

    "nextPriceConfirmWindow": "",
    "delayedOrderConfirmWindow": "",
    "minDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "maxDelayTimeDelta": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMinAge": "",
    "offchainDelayedOrderMaxAge": "",
    "offchainPriceDivergence": "",

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).



