---
sip: 2001
title: Pay DAO Stipends from Inflation
network: Ethereum
status: Draft
type: Governance
author: Artsychoke (@artsychoke)
---

## Simple Summary

Pay DAOs' monthly stipend from inflation instead of from the Treasury Council's assets, and determine a new governance process for changes in stipend amounts.

## Motivation

The motivation behind this SIP is to increase self-sufficiency for the DAO in terms of operating costs and to better align stakeholders.
Currently the Treasury Council handles the 47,000 SNX p.month DAO stipends, which unnecessarily gives the TC an additional lever of influence over other Councils, reduces protocol autonomy, and increases spending.
Additionally, there is no formalized process to determine stipend amount and changes.

## Overview

Council members receive a monthly stipend for their participation. Currently, the process is done manually by the Treasury Council, which pays a predetermined amount to each council member. Current total monthly stipends amount 47,000 SNX.

This SIP proposes that monthly stipends are paid from inflation and initially fixed at $4,000 USD worth of SNX p/month for every member of each council ($2,000 for the CCC), capped to the downside to 2,000 SNX (1,000 SNX for the CCC) if SNX/USD exchange rate is under $2.00.

***This an initial proposal for the value of stipends that the author of the SIP believes is fair, open for discussion***

In order to change the stipend amounts, the Treasury Council needs to propose the new amounts via SIP that is voted by the Spartan Council. The Spartan Council and other councils can suggest stipend changes to the Treasury Council, but only SIPs written by Treasury Council members that propose stipend changes are eligible for voting by the Spartan Council. This process aims to balance out control over stipends and increase protocol autonomy.

The reasoning for moving stipends to inflation is twofold. On one hand, it helps set a benchmark for a terminal inflation rate to cover for protocol expenses into perpetuity. On the other hand, it reduces expense bloat from the TC, which is already under strain by CC funding expenses and hedging costs.

If inflation was to ever be changed to 0 (which the author of this SIP thinks is a bad idea), this SIP proposes that DAO stipend payout responsibility reverts to the TC.


## Specification

47,000 SNX from current inflation will be sent every week to a Safe controlled by the TC. The TC will calculate the SNX amount to match the $ value of the stipends and proceed to transfer the stipend to the council NFT holders every week. Any remaining SNX will be transferred back to a 0 address and burnt every month. 
