---
sccp: 2011
network: Ethereum & Optimism
title: Update DAI Wrapper Parameters
author: Kaleb (@kaleb-keny)
status: Vote_Pending
created: 2023-05-26
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0xc7ffc4e962eca40fe57b54f28c03dc6677a6445ac422c5e217997bdcdcbf0446
type: Governance
---

# Simple Summary

This SCCP proposes to apply the below configuration changes on the DAI wrapper:

- Lower the `maxTokenAmount`on the ethereum network from 20m DAI to 0
- Lower the `burnFeeRate` on the ethereum network from 50 bp to 0
- Lower the `minFeeRate` on the optimism network from 25 bp to 0

# Abstract

- The `maxTokenAmount` is the maximum amount of underlying that can be locked in order to issue a synth equivalent.
- The `mintFeeRate` is the fee rate applied when minting a synth by locking up an underlying.
- The `burnFeeRate` is the fee rate applied when burning a synth in order to unlock the underlying.

# Motivation

The primary motivation is to incentivize arbitrage of the imbalance between the ethereum and optimism wrappers. Over the last couple of months the optimism DAI wrapper went from having around 20m$ of DAI locked, to currently having only around 1m$ locked. With most of the sUSD activity taking place on optimism, it is important to encourage market forces to abitrage the two wrappers in order to reduce the price impact of users buying into and exiting the Synthetix ecosystem. Adjusting the parameters as laid out in this SCCP eases the friction cost and facilitate the arbitrage. 
The sUSD pegs on the two networks are 1.0005 on ethereum (premium) and 0.9995 on optimism (discount). 

# Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
