---
sccp: 2015
network: Optimism
title: stETH Perp Parameters
author: Kaleb (@kaleb-keny)
status: Implemented
created: 2023-06-15
type: Governance
proposal: >-
  https://snapshot.org/#/snxgov.eth/proposal/0x1049cbc454946aaf3e8a32caff4210b91119ba04651e9b33e7b7c4b6231114c1
---

# Simple Summary

Following the implementation of [SIP-2021](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-2021/), this sccp proposes to unpause the stETH market as per the parameters below:

```
	{
		"marketKey": "sSTETHPERP",
		"asset": "STETH",
		"makerFee": "0.3",
		"takerFee": "0.3",
		"takerFeeDelayedOrder": "0.3",
		"makerFeeDelayedOrder": "0.3",
		"takerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "0.0010",
		"makerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder": "0.0002",
		"nextPriceConfirmWindow": "2",
		"delayedOrderConfirmWindow": "120",
		"minDelayTimeDelta": "60",
		"maxDelayTimeDelta": "6000",
		"offchainDelayedOrderMinAge": "4",
		"offchainDelayedOrderMaxAge": "60",
		"maxLeverage": "27.5",
		"maxMarketValue": "3000",
		"maxFundingVelocity": "9",
		"skewScale": "100000",
		"offchainPriceDivergence": "0.0150",
		"liquidationPremiumMultiplier": "1.5625",
		"offchainMarketKey": "ocSTETHPERP",
		"liquidationBufferRatio": "0.01",
		"maxPD": "0.0024",
		"maxLiquidationDelta": "0.0012",
		"paused": false,
		"offchainPaused": false
	}
```

# Abstract

Below is a description of the primary parameters involved with this market:
- `maxMarketValue` is the maximum amount of open interest allowed on long and short positions in a given perp market.
- `skewScale` is a scaling parameter that helps calibrate the amount of slippage (or price improvement) a position receives when a position is modified. It also is a parameter that affects the speed by which funding rate changes.
- `liquidationBufferRatio` is the penalty imposed on a position when it is liquidated. The penalty is calculated as follows: `buffer * P * S`
- `LiquidationPremiumMultiplier` or `LPM` is an additional margin required to be set aside when an account opens position with larger size. The `liquidationPremium` is calculated as follows: `LPM * (S /Scale) * P * S` .
- `makerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder` and `takerFeeOffchainDelayedOrder` are the fee rates applied on maker & taker off-chain orders in bp
- `maxLeverage` is the max leverage a position is allowed to take on. Any changes to existing positions that result in the leverage going above `maxLeverage` would revert.
- `maxFundingVelocity` is the parameter that helps calibrate the speed by which funding rate changes for a given level of skew & skew scale.
- `maxPD` (MPD) and `maxLiquidationDelta` (MLD) are parameters introduced  in [SIP-2005](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-2005/) and they are typically set as described above. These parameters determine whether an account can be liquidated spontaneously or exclusively by endorsed Liquidators.


# Motivation

The primary motivation behind the primary parameter updates:
- `maxMarketValue` is proposed as an initial cap, however, this can be further increased based on demand, given the abundance of on-chain liquidity of stETH.
- `skewScale` is updated on few markets in order to align with the slippage incurred from swapping [stETH into ETH](https://curve.fi/#/ethereum/pools/steth/swap).
- `liquidationBufferRatio` and `liquidationPremiumMultiplier` are mostly aligned with those used on the ETH market.

# Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
