---
sccp: 2005
network: Optimism
title: Update Perp Parameters
author: Kaleb (@kaleb-keny)
status: Draft
created: 2023-05-21
type: Governance
---

# Simple Summary

This SCCP proposes to update the perp-v2 parameters as per the below configurations:

## Max Market Value

|            | **Existing** | **Proposed** |  **Change** |
|:----------:|:------------:|:------------:|:-----------:|
|  **sOP**   |    700,000   |    1,200,000 |   +700,000  |

## Skew Scale

|              | **Existing** |  **Proposed** |    **Change**    |
|:------------:|:------------:|:-------------:|:----------------:|
|   **sDYDX**  |  10,000,000  |    15,000,000 |      + 5,000,000 |
|   **sBCH**   |  340,000     |    500,000    |      + 160,000   |
|   **sUNI**   | 4,000,000    |    8,000,000  |      + 4,000,000 |
|   **sFLOW**  | 5,000,000    |    10,000,000 |      + 5,000,000 |


# Abstract

Below is a description on the parameters being updated:
- `maxMarketValue` is the maximum amount of open interest allowed on long and short positions in a given perp market.
- `skewScale` is a scaling parameter that helps calibrate the amount of slippage (or price improvement) a position receives when a position is modified. It also is a parameter that affects the speed by which funding rate changes.

# Motivation

The primary motivation behind these parameter changes:
- OI caps can be increased taking into account the risk associated with opening positions. The lifting of open interest is batched with liquidation buffer & liquidation premium multiplier changes in order to constrain the size of single positions and therefore reduce the market impact on the debt pool from significant price changes.
- Skew Scale is modified on few markets in order to align with the scaling factor derivative seen on centralized exchanges.

# Configuration Details

Please note the below important specifications on the timing of the parameter updates:
- `maxMarketValue` can be changed immediately.
- Skew scale can be changed by at most 10% per day (whether up or down) until it reaches the target specified in this SCCP. However, if the existing market is utilized by more than 90% of the prevailing open interest (on both long and short sides), then the skew scale parameter can be updated immediately.

# Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
