---
sip: 168
title: Governance Participation Program
author: Andy T CF (@andytcf), MiLLiΞ (@Milli3E)
discussions-to: https://research.synthetix.io/t/governance-participation-program/450
status: Draft
created: 2021-07-19
---

## Implementor

Andy T CF (@andytcf)

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the SCCP.-->

This proposal aims to encourage governance participation from the Synthetix community and ecosystem abroad. Token holders that have values aligned with that of the Ambassadors will now be rewarded with SNX for delegating their votes for the duration of an Epoch (initially set at 28 days), to the Ambassador Multi-sig.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

If this proposal passes, the following will be implemented
The implementation and deployment of a EVM smart contract which acts as a delegation vault, users will be able to delegate their governance tokens to a nominated wallet (ambassadorDAO multisig) and receive Synthetix Network Token as rewards.
An UI on the ambassador.synthetix.io website that interacts with the new vault contract mentioned above
An updated UI on the staking.synthetix.io dApp that enables users to easily access the vault
The SynthetixDAO (sDAO) will be initially sponsoring 8,000 SNX each week for 4 weeks (32,000 SNX total)

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

According to the ambassadorDAO mandate, one of their main responsibilities is partaking in ecosystem-wide governance systems on behalf of the Synthetix community. As of writing this SIP, we have seen major voter apathy in terms of delegating to the ambassadorDAO multisig in all the protocols, except for AAVE.
This Governance Participation Program would reward community members who wish to express their preferences with an ecosystem proposal, but are discouraged by the concentration of token-votes that some top delegates have and the high quorum thresholds for proposals. The participation program encourages these community members to express their votes through their like-minded Synthetix Ambassadors, and in doing so would be eligible to receive SNX, which in turn may be used for further coordination and governance participation in the various Synthetix DAOs.

In order to fulfil the main responsibility of the ambassadorDAO, the aDAO requires a substantial amount of delegated voting power as made apparent in protocols such as Uniswap (which requires 2.5M - 10M tokens to create a proposal).

The goal of this SIP is to
Encourage participation and overcome voter apathy through the rewarding of delegator with an amount of Synthetix Network Tokens
Enable the ambassadorDAO to participate in important governance systems that have a direct impact on the Synthetix ecosystem

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

A smart contract called `DelegationVault` will be deployed that will accept delegable ERC20 tokens (such as $UNI, $COMP). When a user deposits their ERC20 tokens to the vault, they will be eligible to receive Synthetix Network Tokens at a pro-rata rate on the:
Time of entry within the epoch
Amount of a particular ERC20 delegated within the vault
SNX rewards for that epoch

The vault contract will then delegate that balance to the ambassadorDAO multisig.

If a user was to withdraw their delegation before the end of an epoch, they will not be eligible for any rewards within that epoch.

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

Currently users can delegate their tokens to the ambassadorDAO by calling the `delegate()` function on the [Uniswap ERC20](https://etherscan.io/address/0x1f9840a85d5af5bf1d1762f925bdaddc4201f984#code) but considering the high threshold of tokens needed for creating a proposal on the Uniswap Governance system and the high concentration of UNI among top delegates, there is a lack of voter expression in critical ecosystem proposals.

This was the catalyst to consider providing incentives to delegates in a vault contract and by allowing the user to withdraw at any-time, users are encouraged to express their votes through the aDAO, without ever losing control of their tokens or votes.

However, the vault contract design also includes reward penalties to the delegator if they withdraw their delegation early, which protects this system from being abused.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

TBD

### Test Cases

TBD

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

Amount of Synthetix Network Token rewards per epoch
The length of an epoch
Where the rewards will come from after the 4 weeks

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
