---
sip: 134
title: Minimal Proxies for Binary Options
status: Proposed
author: Danijel (@dgornjakovic),Justin Moses (@justinjmoses), Brett Sun (@sohkai)
discussions-to: https://research.synthetix.io/t/sip-134-minimal-proxies-for-bos/386

created: 2021-04-30
---

## Simple Summary

Reduce Binary Option Market creation gas costs by:  
- Deploy a ERC-1167 Minimal Proxy when a new BinaryOptionMarket is created.  
- Deploy a ERC-1167 Minimal Proxy when a new BinaryOption is created.  

## Abstract

This SIP proposes to optimize the creation of BinaryOptionMarkets and the options themselves by deploying [ERC-1167 Minimal Proxies](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1167).
The approach was already implemented for Virtual Synths in [SIP-127](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-127)

## Motivation

The general motivation behind the Minimal Proxy pattern is explained in SIP-127.  
The use case for BinaryOptions is significant as the gas cost for creating a market are quite large at L1 at >$1000 at the time of writing the SIP.  

Gas costs at creating a new BinaryOptionMarket will be greatly reduced with this change from 5,200,000 gas to less than 1,000,000 gas.    
## Specification

### Overview

The `BinaryOptionsMarket` and `BinaryOption` contracts will be modified to reuse the pattern of Minimal proxies as implemented in  [SIP-127](https://sips.synthetix.io/sips/sip-127).   

### Rationale

Minimal Proxies have proved to provide a great relief in terms of gas costs to deploy new contracts with same implementation but different variables/states.  

### Technical Specification

Minimal proxy has been implemented as in SIP-127. Additional changes specific to Binary Options contracts are:  
- A new base contract is added for `Owned` pattern to support initialization via a method call for MininalProxies inherriting this contract.
- BinaryOptionMarket no longer has `MixinResolver` as supercontract. This reduced the release and maintanance overhead.

### Test Cases

Unit tests included with implementation.  
Additional production test added to compare gas costs.

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

None.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
