---
sip: 155
title: Deprecating the synthetixDAO
status: Draft
author: Kain Warwick (@kaiynne), Jordan Momtazi
discussions-to: https://research.synthetix.io

created: 2021-07-02
requires: SIP-156

---

## Simple Summary
<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->
This SIP proposes deprecating the current synthetixDAO and replacing it with two new governance bodies, The Synthetix Treasury Council and the Core Contributor Committee. The CCC will be proposed in a separate companion SIP.

## Abstract
<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "We propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

The synthetixDAO was formed in 2020 as the mechanism to oversee some of the aspects of the project that had previously been governed by the Synthetix Foundation. The decommissioning of the Foundation led to the creation of three distinct DAOs each of which controlled certain aspects of the protocol. The other two governance bodies, the protocolDAO and the grantsDAO have been folded into the evolving decentralised Synthetix governance process with the synthetixDAO yet to be incorporated into that framework. This SIP proposes to replace the existing legacy synthetixDAO with two new decentralised governance bodies. The Treasury Council and the Core Contributor Committee. If passed this will put all aspects of Synthetix governance under the control of token holders.

## Motivation
<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

The synthetixDAO is currently the only remaining legacy governance component within the protocol, by deprecating it and replacing it with governance mechanisms under the control of token holders we will be removing one of the last remaining vectors for protocol capture.


## Specification
<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview
<!--This is a high-level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->
This SIP establishes a new Council with four members (configurable via SCCP) voted on by token holders using the voting process described in SIP-104. As per SIP-137 aligning governance epochs, the first epoch of the Treasury Council will be shortened to ensure it is synchronised with the current governance epoch, after which it will continue to be aligned with the other governance epochs.

The synthetixDAO currently has a number of functions, listed below:

Treasury management
Core Contributor grant payments
Core Contributor discretionary bonuses
Governance participation payments
Funding grantsDAO 
Funding protocolDAO
Funding pDAO costs
Discretionary incentives
Partnership and operational costs

Each of these functions is critical to the continued operation of the Synthetix Protocol and will be split between the Treasury Council and the Core Contributor Committee. This SIP places the following functions under the control of the TC:

Treasury management
Governance participation payments
Funding the CCC
Funding grantsDAO 
Funding protocolDAO
Discretionary incentives

_Treasury management_
The protection and investment of the treasury funds to ensure that the operating expenses of the protocol covered into the future.

_Governance participation payments_
The Treasury Council will set and manage the governance payments for all elected members of governance bodies.

_Funding the Core Contributor Committee_
The Treasury council will also negotiate with the CCC to set quarterly and yearly budgets for CC expenses and will provide this funding in advance to the CCC. At the outset to derisk this transition the TC will provide three years of operating expenses to the TC ~$15m USD and ~1m SNX 

_Funding grantsDAO _
The grantsDAO currently has more than 100k SNX allocated to it, this will be retained by the grantsDAO and cover the next 24 months of funding. After which the TC will set a quarterly budget in collaboration with the gDAO.

_Funding protocolDAO_
The protocolDAO requires funding for administering the protocol typically this is 5-10 eth per month, the TC will be responsible for ensuring the protocolDAO has funds needed for testing and administration of the network.

_Discretionary incentives_
One of the primary benefits of the synthetixDAO has been its discretionary flexibility, this has allowed for funding to be allocated to testing numerous initiatives that would have been difficult to reach consensus on within the Council, these include early liquidity incentives and staking incentives on L2. This mandate could be handed to the Council by establishing a discretionary incentive budget.


### Rationale
<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs? The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->
The SIP is designed to balance a number of considerations, but the primary reasoning behind establishing two new governance bodies rather than transferring these functions to existing governance systems or maintaining the status quo is to ensure that these critical functions are performed by community members elected specifically for their ability manage these functions. Separating these powers also ensures that there are checks and balances within the system of governance to ensure that all governance bodies are held accountable not only to token holders but to each other.


### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)
<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->
Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

