---
sip: 157
title: ambassadorDAO Mandate
status: Vote_Pending
author: MiLLiΞ (@Milli3E), Andy T CF (@andytcf), Afif Bandak (@aband1)
discussions-to: https://research.synthetix.io
created: 2021-06-11
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

The purpose of this SIP is to create a written mandate for the Synthetix Ambassadors, which reflects the interests of SNX holders’ and sets expectations and standards for future Ambassadors to build upon.

## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

In this proposal we outline the ambassadorDAO’s responsibilities and the scope of the aDAO’s authority to act on behalf of SNX holders’ in regards to any community delegated voting power, and other meta governance matters which may concern the Synthetix community.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is inaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

The aDAO is now on its second epoch and though many initiatives have already been launched through the Ambassador program, there is no written description of the role that ambassadors play in the Synthetix ecosystem and thus, creates a lack of transparency and expectations. This SIP aims to shed light on how the aDAO will contribute to the Synthetix ecosystem as well as set clear guidelines on the motivation and scope of our actions when it comes to ecosystem governance matters.

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

### Overview

#### Expectations

##### Ecosystem Governance

- Promote the interests of Synthetix in the Ethereum ecosystem
- Vote/advocate in favour of governance proposals which are in the interests of SNX holders
- Vote/advocate against proposals which may adversely affect Synthetix
- Seek governance power in protocols which may be beneficial for Synthetix to have influence in
- Maintain transparency in all meta-governance initiatives that the ambassador’s are directly/indirectly involved with or endorse.
- Stay up to date on relevant DeFi governance matters and their broader implications

##### Collaborations

- Work with the various Synthetix DAOs to achieve goals aligned with the Ambassador Mandate
- Improve upon and strengthen Synthetix relationships in the defi ecosystem
- Promote the use of Synthetix based products in other dApps, where it benefits SNX
- Coordinate with external DAOs in relation to DEFI governance matters and initiatives which fall under the mandate
- Maintain channels of communications with other DAOs and ecosystem contributors

##### Community

- Seek out technical and non-technical contributors from the ecosystem
- Provide a safe and open space for the community to discuss external governance proposals and suggestions.
- Stay reasonably accessible to the Synthetix community through Synthetix’s official channels of communication. (Mainly Twitter and Discord)

#### Discretionary Items

In the mandate, we propose items that currently should not be expected of the ambassadorDAO members.

- Develop technical products
- Manage funds of any users or parties
- Fund projects or teams to perform work (see grantsDAO for the entity responsible for this)

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

The idea behind this SIP is to create a transparent governance structure for SNX Ambassadors, which serves as a framework for any contributor interested in joining the aDAO.

Ambassadors are charged with pursuing governance influence in the DEFI ecosystem and this mandate aims to empower that mission with clear guidance. The Ambassadors are the closest DAO to the broader community and should maintain the most transparency of the Synthetix DAOs since ambassadors directly represent the votes of SNX holders and community delegates in governance matters. As ambassadors we must maintain open lines of communication with the community in order to ensure that our ambitions continue to align with this SIP’s specifications.

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

N/A

### Test Cases

<!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for SIPs but can be included with the implementation..-->

N/A

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

Number of seats on the ambassadorDAO
The epoch length of the ambassadorDAO

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
