---
sip: 148
title: Liquidation Insurance Fund
status: Draft
author: Spreek (@Spreek)
discussions-to: https://research.synthetix.io

created: 2021-06-11
---

<!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged SIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new SIPs. Note that an SIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your SIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `sip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->

## Simple Summary

<!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Simply describe the outcome the proposed changes intends to achieve. This should be non-technical and accessible to a casual community member.-->

Add three features to improve liquidation function and reduce odds of a death spiral: 


## Abstract

<!--A short (~200 word) description of the proposed change, the abstract should clearly describe the proposed change. This is what *will* be done if the SIP is implemented, not *why* it should be done or *how* it will be done. If the SIP proposes deploying a new contract, write, "we propose to deploy a new contract that will do x".-->

1) An insurance fund is to be established, possibly seeded by sDAO and/or from inflation pool. A portion of each liquidation penalty in SNX will be paid to the insurance fund.
2) A new function called emergencyLiquidate() is added. This can be triggered any time an account is below 110% c-ratio (with no time delay). It burns all their debt, assigns it to current stakers, and distributes all of the SNX in that wallet to the feePool (or possibly via Merkle Drop to avoid snapshotting). Additional SNX and/or sUSD may be added to the fee pool or merkle drop from the insurance fund as needed to partially or fully compensate losses.
3) A new flag criteria for stakers who are not necessarily below 200% c-ratio but are possibly inactive or no longer willing to maintain their c-ratio. Time + low c-ratio, e.g. two weeks below 350%. Parameters may be set by SCCP.
4) Charge higher penalties based on the amount of SNX currently flagged for liquidation, with the additional penalty going to insurance fund. This equalizes the treatment of people early in a liquidation cascade (who get their SNX liquidated at superior market prices) to people who are liquidated later in a liquidation cascade.

## Motivation

<!--This is the problem statement. This is the *why* of the SIP. It should clearly explain *why* the current state of the protocol is inadequate.  It is critical that you explain *why* the change is needed, if the SIP proposes changing how something is calculated, you must address *why* the current calculation is innaccurate or wrong. This is not the place to describe how the SIP will address the issue!-->

As we have seen with the liquidations on 10-11 June 2021, there is a possibility for liquidations to have substantial market impact and if they start a cascade of new accounts getting flagged, which causes people to fear more liquidations, which causes more selling, which causes more fear of liquidations, this could result in a catostrophic failure of the system leading to losses by synth holders.

Moreover, users are not perfectly incentivized to restore their c-ratio in some cases, as they essentially hold a free put option, which could be very valuable in times of market stress. Accounts with very large stakes may also believe that they are unable to sell their SNX without incurring more than 10% slippage, which may make walking away and eating the liquidation preferable. Fear from this liquidation of large accounts could also lead to substantial adverse market impact in the leadup to the event. 

So the goal here is 1) to more heavily incenvitize stakers to act in the best interests of the system during times of stress, 2) to lower uncertainty about bad debt for synth holders and make it clear that SNX holders are the ultimate backstop for the system, 3) to decrease the total amount of forced liquidations at inopportune times and encourage insolvent stakers to explore other options such as self liquidating in order to avoid costly penalties.

Feature #1 helps serve as a backstop and also enables feature #2 and #4 to be more successful. Feature #2 is designed to prevent bad debt from accumulating. It is rather punitive to those who get liquidated (and does run the risk of permitting market manipulation). However, because the proceeds remain fully within system, it is not at all an attractive attack for manipulators. I would also note that an account anywhere near 110% is benefitting from a MASSIVE freeroll at the expense of other stakers, where they may be able to profitably walk away from their debt. 

Feature #3 is designed to reduce the number of accounts that are liquidated in a cascade type fashion. People who go inactive are likely to be haphazardly liquidated at times when few other liquidations take place. This means that 1) inactive non whales liquidated only pay a small penalty due to #4, and 2) inactive stakers likely to be liquidated in any large market downturn get derisked in calmer conditions with larger collateral value where they pose less threat to the system.

Finally Feature #4 is designed to more heavily punish whales and people who are liquidated at the same time as many others. It more adequately punishes people who put the system at risk, aligning their incentives with all other stakeholders. This means that people will be more encouraged to seek out alternative ways to cover their debt that may be less harmful to the system than getting forcibly liquidated and having the entire sum get market sold. Because the additional penalties go entirely to the system, it is not at high risk for market manipulators or attackers. In the event of adverse conditions causing stakers to be unfairly liquidated and penalized, governance may even choose to refund them out of the insurance fund. 

## Specification

<!--The specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature, there are five sections
1. Overview
2. Rationale
3. Technical Specification
4. Test Cases
5. Configurable Values
-->

TBD

### Overview

<!--This is a high level overview of *how* the SIP will solve the problem. The overview should clearly describe how the new feature will be implemented.-->

TBD

### Rationale

<!--This is where you explain the reasoning behind how you propose to solve the problem. Why did you propose to implement the change in this way, what were the considerations and trade-offs. The rationale fleshes out what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->

### Technical Specification

<!--The technical specification should outline the public API of the changes proposed. That is, changes to any of the interfaces Synthetix currently exposes or the creations of new ones.-->

### Test Cases

TBD

### Configurable Values (Via SCCP)

<!--Please list all values configurable via SCCP under this implementation.-->

* Amount of inflation to be distributed weekly to insurance fund
* % of base liquidation penalty distributed to insurance fund
* Inactive Flag: required time inactive and required current c-ratio
* Inactive Flag base penalty
* emergencyLiquidate() threshold (suggested 110%)
* emergencyLiquidate() threshold delay (suggested 0)
* Liquidation cascade penalty parameters tbd

##Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
